<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE TEI.2 SYSTEM "http://www.gutenberg.org/tei/marcello/0.4/dtd/pgtei.dtd" [

<!ENTITY u5  "http://www.tei-c.org/Lite/">

]>

<TEI.2 lang="en">
<teiHeader>
  <fileDesc>
    <titleStmt>
      <title>Rural Health and Welfare</title>
      <author><name reg="Fairchild, George Thompson">George Thompson Fairchild</name></author>
    </titleStmt>
    <editionStmt>
      <edition n="1">Edition 1</edition>
    </editionStmt>
    <publicationStmt>
      <publisher>Project Gutenberg</publisher>
      <date>April 28, 2010</date>
      <idno type="etext-no">32158</idno>
      <availability>
        <p>This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and
        with almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it
        away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg
        License online at www.gutenberg.org/license</p>
      </availability>
    </publicationStmt>
    <sourceDesc>
      <bibl>
        Created electronically.
      </bibl>
    </sourceDesc>
  </fileDesc>
  <encodingDesc>
  </encodingDesc>
  <profileDesc>
    <langUsage>
      <language id="en"></language>
      <language id="la"></language>
    </langUsage>
  </profileDesc>
  <revisionDesc>
    <change>
      <date value="2010-04-28">April 28, 2010</date>
      <respStmt>
        <name>
            Produced by Tom Roch, David King, and the Online
            Distributed Proofreading Team at &lt;http://www.pgdp.net/&gt;.
            (This file was produced from images produced by Core Historical
            Literature in Agriculture (CHLA), Cornell University.)
        </name>
      </respStmt>
      <item>Project Gutenberg TEI edition 1</item>
    </change>
  </revisionDesc>
</teiHeader>

<pgExtensions>
  <pgStyleSheet>
    .boxed           { x-class: boxed }
    .shaded          { x-class: shaded }
    .rules           { x-class: rules; rules: all }
    .indent          { margin-left: 2 }
    .bold            { font-weight: bold }
    .italic          { font-style: italic }
    .smallcaps       { font-variant: small-caps }
  </pgStyleSheet>

  <pgCharMap formats="txt.iso-8859-1">
    <char id="U0x2014">
      <charName>mdash</charName>
      <desc>EM DASH</desc>
      <mapping>--</mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2003">
      <charName>emsp</charName>
      <desc>EM SPACE</desc>
      <mapping>  </mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2026">
      <charName>hellip</charName>
      <desc>HORIZONTAL ELLIPSIS</desc>
      <mapping>...</mapping>
    </char>
  </pgCharMap>
</pgExtensions>

<text lang="en">
  <front>
    <div>
      <divGen type="pgheader" />
    </div>
    <div>
      <divGen type="encodingDesc" />
    </div>

    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">The Rural Science Series</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Edited by L. H. Bailey</p>
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">Rural Wealth and Welfare</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">Economic Principles Illustrated and Applied in Farm Life</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">By</p>
      <p rend="font-size: x-large; text-align: center">Geo. T. Fairchild, LL.D.</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">New York</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">The MacMillan Company</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">London: MacMillan &amp; Co., Ltd.</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">1900</p>
    </div>
    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <head>Contents</head>
      <divGen type="toc" />
    </div>

  </front>
<body>

<pb n='vi'/><anchor id='Pgvi'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Dedication</head>

<lg>
<l>To The Thousands Of Students In Agricultural Colleges</l>
<l>With Whom I Have Studied Economic Questions</l>
<l>During The Past Thirty-Five Years</l>
</lg>

<p>
This little volume is thankfully dedicated
</p>

<lg>
<l>In Remembrance Of</l>
<l>Many Pleasant Hours</l>
</lg>

<p>
Geo. T. Fairchild
</p>

</div>

<pb n='vii'/><anchor id='Pgvii'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Preface.</head>

<p>
In giving these pages to the public I offer no
apology for a restatement of fundamental principles
always requiring adjustment to new life and circumstances;
but economic literature has usually dealt too
exclusively with the phenomena of manufactures and
commerce to gain the sympathy of rural people. An
experience of more than thirty years in handling such
subjects at the Michigan and Kansas Agricultural
Colleges, together with the expressed confidence of
former pupils whose judgment I trust, has led me into
the effort to bring the subject home to farmers and
farmers' families in this elementary way.
</p>

<p>
I have carefully refrained from quotations, or even
references to works consulted, for the obvious reason
that such formalities would distract the attention of
most readers from the direct, common-sense thinking
desired, and render the style of the book more complex.
I hereby acknowledge my debt to the leading writers of
past and present upon most of the topics treated, not
excluding any school or party.
</p>

<pb n='viii'/><anchor id='Pgviii'/>

<p>
The statements of facts I have taken from best
authorities, with care to verify, if possible, by comparisons.
Many data have been diligently compiled
and rearranged for more exact presentation of
facts, and the phenomena of prices of farm crops
have been analyzed with especial care. The necessities
of the printed volume have to some extent
obscured the charts by reduction, but I trust they
may be intelligible and interesting to all students
of agricultural interests.
</p>

<p>
No attempt has been made to argue or to expound
difficulties beyond a simple statement of principles
involved, and the spirit of controversy has been absent
from my thoughts throughout. Whatever bias of
opinion may appear is without a tinge of bitterness
toward those who may differ. I trust that men of all
views may recognize in these pages the wish of their
author to have only truth prevail.
</p>

<p>
In offering this volume to farmers I do not assume
that all questions of wealth and welfare can be settled
by rule. I hope to point out the actual trend of facts,
the universal principles sustained by the facts, and
means of most ready adjustment to circumstances in the
evolutions of trade and manufacture. The business
sense of farmers is appealed to for the sake of their
own welfare. Several important questions of rural
welfare have been touched only suggestively because
<pb n='ix'/><anchor id='Pgix'/>
the limits of the volume could not admit of fuller
treatment.
</p>

<p>
My gratitude is offered especially to Professor
Liberty H. Bailey, of Cornell University, to whose
suggestion and patient attention the existence of this
volume is due.
</p>

<p>
George T. Fairchild.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Berea College, Kentucky</hi>,<lb/>
March 1, 1900.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='001'/><anchor id='Pg001'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Introduction. General Welfare.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Elements of welfare.</hi>&mdash;The welfare of communities,
like that of individuals, is made up of health, wealth,
wisdom and virtue. If we can say of any human being
that lie is healthy, wealthy, wise and good, we are
sure of his satisfaction so far as it depends upon self.
When a community is made up of individuals kept in
health and strength from birth to old age, sustained
with accumulated treasures, wise enough to use both
strength and wealth to advantage, and upright, just
and kind in all human relations, our ideals of welfare
are met.
</p>

<p>
These are four different kinds of welfare, each of
which is essential, and only confusion of thought follows
any attempt to treat them all as wealth, however they
may be intermingled and exchanged. Health is essential
in gaining a full measure of wealth and wisdom, and perhaps
in maintaining genuine character; but a healthy
life gives no assurance of complete welfare. The facts
concerning health in a community make a distinct subject
<pb n='002'/><anchor id='Pg002'/>
of study for promotion of welfare, and we call it
public hygiene. The science of education deals with
ways and means of securing public wisdom. The science
of government includes all facts relative to public
virtue. So the facts by which we know the nature
and uses of accumulated wealth in any community make
a distinct study under the name economic science; it
deals with certain definite groups of facts. To call
everything good <q>wealth</q> and everything evil <q>ilth</q>
adds nothing but confusion to our thoughts.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Mutual welfare.</hi>&mdash;Every human being in society is
directly interested in the study of wealth as related
to his own and his neighbors' welfare. No one can
understand his relations to those about him in the
family, the neighborhood, his country and the world
without some understanding of the sources and uses
of wealth all about him. His very industry gains its
reward by certain means in society depending upon
economic principles. His motives for accumulating
wealth have a distinct place. His uses of accumulated
wealth are a part of the general facts which make
wealth desirable. So the study of wealth in society
must be everybody's study, if each wishes to do best
for himself or for his neighbors. In such study of
welfare every one finds his interests completely blended
with the interests of others. His existence is part
of a larger existence called society, from which he
receives himself in large measure and most of his
satisfaction; to which he contributes in like measure
a portion of its essential character and future
existence.
</p>

<pb n='003'/><anchor id='Pg003'/>

<p>
The old idea that one gives up freedom of self for
the advantages given by society has no foundation in
fact, because we are born into our place in society without
power to escape its advantages, disadvantages or
responsibilities. The maxim <q>Each for all and all for
each</q> is thoroughly grounded in the constitution of
man; his needs and abilities enforce society and insist
upon community of interests. Even personal wealth
confers little welfare outside of its relations to other
human beings. The whole progress of the human race
tends toward acceptance of the clear vision of Tennyson,
where
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>All men find their good in all men's good,</q></l>
<l><q rend='post'>And all men join in noble brotherhood.</q></l>
</lg>
</quote>

<p>
Each stage in the progress of the conquest of nature
to meet human wants, from the gathering of wild fruits,
through hunting and fishing, domestication of animals,
herding, and tillage of permanent fields, to the manufacture
of universal comforts and tools, and to general
commerce, has made more important the welfare of
neighbors. Even the wars of our century are waged
in the name of and for the sake of humanity. The
study of individual welfare involves the public welfare.
Welfare of a class is dependent upon the welfare
of all classes. Wealth of individuals is genuine wealth
in connection only with the wealth of the world. Welfare
without wealth would imply the annihilation of
space, of time, and of all forces acting in opposition
to wishes.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Wealth in farming.</hi>&mdash;The subject of the following
<pb n='004'/><anchor id='Pg004'/>
pages is wealth, how it is accumulated, how distributed
to individual control and how finally consumed for the
welfare of all concerned. But special reference is made
to the sources of wealth as a means of welfare in rural
life, and to the bearing of definite economic principles
upon farming, especially in these United States of
America. Farming is, and must always remain, a
chief factor in both wealth and welfare, and its relations
to the industry of the world grow more important
to every farmer as the world comes nearer to him.
We cannot now live in such isolation as our fathers
loved. The markets of the world and the methods of
other farmers all over the world affect the daily life
of every tiller of the soil today. Commerce in the
products of farm and household reaches every interest,
when the ordinary mail sack goes round the world in
less time than it took our immediate ancestors to go
as pioneers from Massachusetts to Ohio. It seems
possible to show from the experiences of farm life
the essential principles of wealth-making and wealth-handling,
including the tendencies under a world-wide
commerce. These every farmer and laborer needs for
his business, for his home, and for his country.
</p>

<pb n='005'/><anchor id='Pg005'/>

<p>
Nature Of Wealth
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Wealth defined.</hi>&mdash;If we look at the objects which
men number in speaking of their wealth, we shall soon
find the list differing in important particulars from the
list of things which they enjoy. All enjoyable things
contribute to welfare, but not all are wealth. Some,
like the air and the sunshine, if never lacking, cannot
be counted, <hi rend='italic'>because no storing against future need is
practicable</hi>; but the fan that cools the air and the coal
that gives heat are counted when they are stored as
means of meeting future wants. If we could not foresee
wants of ourselves or of those dependent upon us,
we could not gather means of supply for those wants.
If we had all wants supplied at a wish or a prayer,
we should have no incentive to store. The pampered
child whose every wish is met has no clear conception
of wealth or its uses. Let him be without a meal, and
he seeks provision for the future by an effort to save
what is left over from his last meal and by exertion to
add to his store in anticipation of want. Thus wants,
to be met only by exertion, are the foundation of the
universal ideas of wealth, and whatever we have stored
as a provision against wants becomes our wealth. If
hunger were our only desire, our wealth would include
only stores of food, conveniences for storing, means of
increasing the store, and means of utilizing the articles
to be eaten. Each desire adds to the range of articles
which may enter our list of objects of wealth until enumeration
is impossible. None of these, however, will
be stored as wealth beyond the limits of anticipated use:
<pb n='006'/><anchor id='Pg006'/>
if so stored, they add nothing to the supposed wealth.
An isolated family, able to consume only thirty bushels
of potatoes in a season, is not more wealthy from having
three hundred bushels stored: the wealth is measured
by actual relations to wants not otherwise supplied.
Even in a populous city, the three hundred bushels of
potatoes become a store of wealth only when other
people need them and <emph>are able in turn to meet other
wants of the owners</emph>.
</p>

<p>
Indeed, we soon come to estimate any object of
wealth according to its power, directly or indirectly, to
meet the first want that comes. A cherished memento
of friendship may be ever so gratifying, and yet find
no place in our account of wealth, because it can serve
no purpose in meeting other wants.
</p>

<p>
Any object of wealth may cease to be counted, not
because it has changed, but because wants have changed.
The last year's bonnet goes for a song, because the
fashion changes; the reaper rots behind the barn or at
the roadside, because the harvester is wanted in its
place. So the wealth in any object is limited by its
relation to the present or prospective wants of its
owner, and his control to meet these wants. The
wealth of any community is its store of material objects
suited to the current wants or fitted to exchange
with other communities for more suitable articles of
use. We estimate it only by thinking of uses in producing
pleasure or preventing pain, its limitations in
quantity to a certain range of wants, and its control
for use or transfer by an owner.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Wealth distinguished from power.</hi>&mdash;Wealth is not to
<pb n='007'/><anchor id='Pg007'/>
be confused with power of other kinds. Power may be
for future exertion; wealth is the result of exertion.
Power may take any form of welfare,&mdash;health, wisdom,
character, as well as wealth. So no personal abilities
can be counted as wealth, however useful they may be
as means of gaining it. Jenny Lind's abilities as a
singer may have been better than wealth; but exertion
of those abilities in the United States enabled her to
carry back to Europe wealth of which she had none
before coming. The ingenuity of Elias Howe exerted
upon the sewing machine has been an immense source
of wealth and welfare to the world, but it alone could
not secure him daily food. Your words and my music
combined in a song fit to tickle the fancy of the multitude
may transfer wealth to our pockets, but it was in
neither the words nor the music, nor yet in the song,
and still less in the power to contrive them. If wealth
in material things had not been in possession of the
multitude, the same sweet sounds might have given
satisfaction to the crowds without an idea of wealth in
the transaction. Much of the welfare of the world is
from exertion of powers entirely independent of wealth.
The chief joys of home are not measured by the wealth
in our tenement. The chief welfare of society is only
incidentally connected with wealth.
</p>

<pb n='008'/><anchor id='Pg008'/>

<p>
Chart No. I
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Fluctuation of Farms and Farm Interests since 1850</hi>
</p>

<p>
At the top is shown the relative size of farms at the close
of each census period, with the number of acres tilled and untilled.
The lower part of the chart shows the changes in different
farm interests, especially in the amount and character of
capital employed and the number of people engaged in agriculture.
Assuming the conditions of 1850 to be par, the increase
or decrease is shown for each kind of live stock, the number of
farms, the total farm population, and the number of farm managers,
as well as the valuation of real estate and of live stock.
To illustrate, take No. 4, the number of cattle, excluding the
cows. In 1860 there were 1.5 times as many as in 1850. In 1870,
on account of the consumption and disturbance of the war, the number
was reduced to 1.4 times as many. In 1880 there were more
than 2.3 times as many, and in 1890 there were 3.48 times
as many. In a few instances the estimate for 1897, though
not an accurate enumeration, is added for comparison. A
careful study of these various changes will show that while the
total population in 1890 was only 2.7 times the population of
1850, the total number of people employed in farm occupations of
every kind was 2.88 times as great; although the number of independent
farmers was only 2.28 times as great. The total value
of real estate in farms was over four times as great, and the total
value of live stock exactly corresponded. The number of cows,
sheep and hogs had not kept up with the population; while the
number of beef cattle and horses and mules had increased much
more rapidly. The fact that the value of live stock had increased
in much greater proportion than the numbers shows that there
has been great improvement in the individual character of the
animals. That the average wealth of farm proprietors is more
than three-fourths as large again is shown by comparison of the
number of farmers with the value of the farms. That the number
of mules, cattle and hogs actually decreased between 1860
and 1870 indicates the enormous consumption of the armies in
the Civil War.
</p>

<pb n='009'/><anchor id='Pg009'/>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <anchor id='Chart_I'/>
  <figure url='images/chart-i.png' rend='width: 80%'>
    <head>Chart I. Showing the rate of increase in farms and farm live stock as compared
with population. See explanation, p. 8.</head>
    <figDesc>Chart.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<pb n='010'/><anchor id='Pg010'/>

<p>
Chart No. II
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Progress of the United States in Farm Crops since 1850</hi>
</p>

<p>
This chart indicates to the eyes facts shown by the census
reports as to the relative increase or decrease of certain staple
crops in comparison with the population. Assuming the conditions
of 1850 to be par, the several lines indicated by numbers show
the ratio of the several crops to the crop of 1850. Thus the wheat
crop in 1860 was nearly .75 greater than in 1850; in 1870 it was 2.87
times as great; in 1880 it was nearly 4.6 times as great; only a
little greater in 1890, but in 1897 was nearly 6 times as great.
It should be remarked that the census returns are founded upon
the crop of the previous year, and therefore, will not exactly
correspond with current estimates. At a glance it will appear
that rye, buckwheat, sweet potatoes, sugar and rice have nowhere
nearly kept up with the increase of population, while all the other
crops have been considerably in excess. The barley crop could
not be shown upon the chart for want of room, but is more than
fifteen times as great. The cultivation of fruits is estimated to be
twenty times as great, although the census returns give insufficient
figures for accuracy. It is evident that the people of the United
States demand a better living, as well as raise more profitable crops,
than in 1850. Some striking illustrations of the effects of the
Civil War are seen in the falling off of many crops during that
period. Only oats, wheat and potatoes increased beyond the increase
in population. Most of the others actually diminished;
and the staple products of the southern states prior to the war
have scarcely as yet regained their previous standing. This is
accounted for in part by the immense destruction of capital, but
in larger part by the entire change in conditions of plantation
cultivation.
</p>

<pb n='011'/><anchor id='Pg011'/>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/chart-ii.png' rend='width: 80%'>
    <head>Chart II. Showing the rate of increase in total crops for the given period.
See explanation, p. 10.</head>
    <figDesc>Chart.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<pb n='012'/><anchor id='Pg012'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Wealth in material objects.</hi>&mdash;Our attention is called
to wealth in comparing two material objects of desire.
One has more uses, more important uses, more rare
uses, than another; or one is less easily obtained than
another. In either case we prize that one in store, as
the more important. We compare two farms, as material
aids to different owners, and call both wealth in
different degrees. We note the condition of two countries
as to all the machinery of industry, and know that
one has greater wealth than the other. We compare
the accumulations of this generation with those of our
fathers, and rejoice in our advance in wealth as one
important form of power to gain a genuine welfare.
Thus, in comparing our country's inventory by the
census of 1890 with that of 1850, we find that while
its people are only 2.7 times as many, there are 3.15
times as many farms of exactly the same number of
acres, though more of each is cultivated, and that the
value of property used in farming is more than four
times as great; so we know that the farmers have
increased in wealth and welfare as compared with our
fathers. See Charts I and II.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Rural wealth analyzed.</hi>&mdash;A brief analysis of rural
wealth in any established community will help to understand
the meaning of the word and its relation to
welfare. First may be named the farm fields and plantations
brought by exertions continued through long
years from raw forest or prairie to present tilth and
productiveness. An English farmer, when asked how
long it took to establish a certain permanent pasture,
replied, <q>Three hundred years.</q> Second, all fences,
<pb n='013'/><anchor id='Pg013'/>
drives and farm buildings, for convenience of handling
and storing produce and stock. Third, all the tools
and implements of the trade. Fourth, all domestic
animals of every kind, and all attendants of their sustenance
and growth, including feed and manure. Fifth,
all contrivances for marketing and preparing for
market. Sixth, all highways between neighbors and
toward market. Seventh, all local elevators, stock-yards
and depot facilities. Eighth, the homes, with all
material comforts and utensils. Ninth, any store of
provisions in cellar, pantry, smokehouse or bin.
Tenth, all personal belongings for clothing, adornment
and enjoyment. Eleventh, the family libraries and
associated treasures. Twelfth, any actual store of gold,
silver or other current wealth available for future
wants. This does not include notes, mortgages, bonds,
or any other promises to pay, nor certificates of stock
in any business enterprise, because these are mere
titles to wealth supposed to exist elsewhere,&mdash;as distinct
from the wealth as the deed is from the farm. Thirteenth,
any peculiar advantages of location, scenery,
pure air, pure water and agreeable temperature, that
are controlled by owners for personal advantage or
enjoyment, and can be objects of desire to others.
Fourteenth, any <q>good will</q> attached to, and part of,
particular farms, due to long established methods and
facilities in preparing or marketing produce. If such
<q>good will</q> is attached to a person rather than to the
place, it is not wealth, but power.
</p>

<p>
The last two are seldom distinctly enumerated by
the assessor, yet they are clearly estimated in any
<pb n='014'/><anchor id='Pg014'/>
exchange of places or transfer of titles. They are
owned, used and transferred like other forms of wealth,
and save future exertions to obtain them. All these
are wealth because they contribute to welfare through
being accumulated materials to meet future wants, and
are to be measured in any estimate by their relation
to the wants they will satisfy and the exertions they
will save.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Future wants certain.</hi>&mdash;Wants and exertions are
readily seen to be at the foundation of all ideas of
wealth as indicated above. If we are uncertain as to
the continuance of any wants or uncertain as to the
conditions for meeting those wants, we stop accumulation
of materials for satisfying them. Exertion stops
unless the satisfaction to be gained by our effort
is foreseen with a reasonable certainty. The farmer is
never absolutely sure of returns for his labor upon the
cornfield; but he is reasonably certain, and is absolutely
certain that the crop will not come without labor.
This assumed continuance of individual wants and
their relations gives the grand motive for wealth gathering.
</p>

<p>
The means of protection and support for physical
life will be needed by ourselves and our children.
Tools of better form and machinery of better manufacture
will be needed to reduce exertion in future.
Reduced exertion for a given satisfaction will mean a
fuller supply of things we are going to need still. If
these wants are fully met, we are going to have leisure
to satisfy larger and higher wants. It is the certainty
that each advance of wealth will bring advancing wants
<pb n='015'/><anchor id='Pg015'/>
to consume more wealth, that gives a genuine motive to
activity in gaining wealth, i.e., in accumulating the
things to be used. The degree of uncertainty in all
future plans leads to over-estimating the importance of
gold, diamonds or any forms of wealth that can most
easily be transferred between places or individuals, or
be turned to account in each change of necessities.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Ownership.</hi>&mdash;The importance of wants and exertion
emphasizes the importance of the individual self
in all ideas of wealth. The <emph>ownership</emph> of one's <emph>own</emph>
abilities and their products is absolutely essential to his
care for accumulation, and that care is in proportion to
his security in such ownership. Directly or indirectly,
every exertion and every sacrifice must depend upon
confidence that it will bring its object; but wealth-getting
has no object without control, in some measure,
of results. This fact makes individual ownership an
essential to the highest exertion, a natural sequence to
the right of liberty.
</p>

<p>
Property rights are grounded in the general and
individual welfare, as shown in human nature and in
the progress of the world along the line of protection
to property. Those communities are most happy which
best protect individual property. As J. E. Thorold
Rogers remarks, <q>Sacredness is accorded to private
property, because society prospers by it.</q> Even theorizers
who denounce individual property-holding found
their argument upon the equity of individual rights in
property. War is less harmful than anarchy, because
it ensures a measure of control. Slavery has sometimes
been less injurious than war in giving security to
<pb n='016'/><anchor id='Pg016'/>
enjoy a portion of self. But a conquest of freedom by
bloodshed is worth its cost in self-control. Civilization
advances as individual responsibility for property, as
well as everything else, is recognized.
</p>

<p>
Christianity is ideally practical in upholding every
man's right to self-control in the interest of all. It
distinguishes equity from equality in distribution of all
good, wealth included. Public property is rightly public
when the wants and energies of all the community
are best provided for by such common ownership.
Proof in each particular case is essential against the
presumption that individual needs are the best impulses
to provision for welfare. Even common property is
limited necessarily to the numbers who can use it. No
property or wealth can exist for anybody without the
control of some human individuals for whom it is
accumulated.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Wants individual.</hi>&mdash;We are likely to lose sight of
the essential individuality of wants and exertions which
make wealth possible, because in any community
exchange of services modifies the direct relation of
each man's wants to his accumulations. Assuming that
others, wanting food, will exchange clothing for it, one
man stores food alone, but in quantities far beyond his
own need, measuring its relation to all his material
wants through the wants and exertions of others. He
feels even more sure of the continued activity of wants
and powers among a multitude than if he had but one
neighbor; but individuals, after all, must need his
products and exert themselves to meet the need, or all
his calculations fail.
</p>

<pb n='017'/><anchor id='Pg017'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Progress in welfare.</hi>&mdash;Economic progress must show
a larger welfare to individuals of the community. The
familiar figure by which a commonwealth is compared to
an animal organism fails to include the important fact
that the individuals of the commonwealth furnish the
only reason for the existence of the commonwealth
itself, as well as its only means of existence. The cells
of the animal, or even the most important organs, have
no reason for existence in themselves. Each individual
man furnishes the reasons for his activity, and the
needs of individual men furnish the only reason for
having a commonwealth.
</p>

<p>
We can speak of progress, then, only when these
individuals secure a better use of wealth in some way.
It may be by accumulation through saving from the full
years for the empty, as older communities can endure a
drought with little suffering, while pioneers are ruined.
It may be by an increased product for a given exertion,
as illustrated by every labor-saving implement upon the
farm or in the factory. It may be by lessening exertion
for a given product, as in the devices of kitchen and
dairy to make tasks lighter. It may be in better distribution
of the total product through readier and fairer
exchanges of services or products, as happens with
every improvement in transportation and every means
for fairer understanding in a bargain. Lastly, it may
be in more economical expenditure for common wants,
as in maintaining government machinery. Usually,
progress has been marked along several of these lines
at once, if not all of them. There is reason in the
statement of Charles Francis Adams that the last
<pb n='018'/><anchor id='Pg018'/>
century far exceeds the gain of a thousand years
before.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Production, distribution, consumption.</hi>&mdash;Full consideration
of rural wealth as related to welfare must
first give the principles upon which wealth is produced,
including exchange with all its machinery; for the
marketing of produce is today one of the chief steps in
securing wealth by farming. The thrifty farmer of today
is the man of most business tact and energy, who uses
most approved means of raising, handling and marketing
his goods.
</p>

<p>
It also requires a careful study of principles upon
which any product of exertions, where more than one
person has contributed toward the whole, can be fairly
shared between the producers, however they have helped.
A farmer is as thoroughly interested in problems of rent,
interest and profits, if not in wages, as any other worker
for wealth or welfare.
</p>

<p>
It further involves the study of economic uses for
wealth, private and public, since no wealth has found
the true reason for its existence till the uses to which
it is put are known. This includes all questions upon
the economic functions of government, the ends to be
served, and the raising and handling of revenues. If
any patriots need to know for what, how and in what
measure their country is dependent upon their own resources,
it is the farmers, whose homes make the bulk
of the land we love, whose children furnish the bone
and sinew of industry, and whose interests are most sensitive
to misdirected energy in public administration.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Security in stable government.</hi>&mdash;Agriculture, of all
<pb n='019'/><anchor id='Pg019'/>
industries, can flourish in that country alone where personal
and property rights are fully understood and
respected, where claims are equitably adjusted by a
stable government, and where taxes are properly apportioned
and revenues economically expended.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='021'/><anchor id='Pg021'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Part I. Productive Industries: Analysis of Aims, Forces,
Means and Methods.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter I. Aims Of Industry.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Production defined.</hi>&mdash;A very little thought shows
that men produce nothing in the sense of creating.
All production is simply overcoming obstacles to satisfaction
of wants as we find these obstacles in space,
time and form or substance of natural objects. In
doing this we are confined to mere ability to move
things. The very highest effort of man's energy today
but proves the saying of Lord Bacon, <q>All that man
can do is to move natural objects to and from each
other: nature working within accomplishes the rest.</q>
This is fully illustrated in farm operations. The bringing
together of soil, seed, sunshine and shower, according
to their natures, secures the product of nature&mdash;a
crop. Moving food and water to the steers, or the
steers to food and water, under proper conditions of
warmth, air and exercise, produces beef. To know how
and when and where to move things so that nature may
meet our wishes by what always happens under the
<pb n='022'/><anchor id='Pg022'/>
same circumstances, would be to have all the arts of
life; in short, production is the art of moving things.
But we distinguish different kinds of production according
to the direct results expected from our motion, as
reducing space and time, modifying the form, or changing
the substantial qualities of things handled.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Transportation in production.</hi>&mdash;The change of place
necessary to bring together wants and those things
which satisfy them is a method of producing wealth
most apparent everywhere. The bringing of wild fruits
from the forest or the swamp to the home gives them
worth. The mere transportation, change of place, gives
them an importance they did not have on the trees or
bushes. In this transportation we put the energy necessary
to take grain from the fields all the way to the
bake-ovens, and finally to our mouths, or to carry the
milk from the stable or yard in pail, can, wagon, train,
delivery cart and bottle, to the lips of the child whose
life it maintains. Every kind of material or force expended
in this process of overcoming space is used in
the idea that the object is worth the expenditure in the
place finally reached. If the motion stops anywhere
along the way, the wealth is not obtained, or at least
is held only in expectation until the motion can be completed.
While each of fifty individuals may give a hand,
and pass his claim to the next for a consideration, the
wealth is all the way increasing in anticipation, as the
object comes nearer its use.
</p>

<p>
In this progress time as well as space is an important
obstacle to be overcome, and we employ all means
of increasing speed, or preserving against what we call
<pb n='023'/><anchor id='Pg023'/>
<q>the ravages of time,</q> i. e., the operation of injurious
forces acting in time upon most material substances.
The methods employed for storing, curing and forcing
to maturity the various forms of food needed in a
community are aimed at meeting this obstacle, and add
to its final worth; indeed these may be the means of
giving value to all the other efforts in transportation,
as in moving beef from Kansas City to New York, or
fresh fruit from San Francisco to Boston.
</p>

<p>
In the same process of putting things where they are
needed, all merchants are engaged. Without the store,
the order upon the shelves, the ready attendant and his
despatch in meeting your demand, the pounds of sugar
or salt essential to your comfort could not be had for
love or money. These efforts are an essential part in
the motion between wants and objects to satisfy them.
Much of this kind of motion we include under the
name commerce, though that word more directly implies
the exchanges involved. The machinery of commerce
is chiefly the means of bringing things wanted
to the people who want them.
</p>

<p>
Much, however, of the exertion required in all industries,
especially in farming, is simply <q>to fetch and
carry.</q> It will emphasize this fact to study, while you
eat a piece of cherry pie, the processes involved in
bringing it from the treetop, grainfield, dairy and cane-field,
through mill and store and pantry and oven, to
your plate. Transportation cuts a tremendous figure
in production of wealth. In the first stages of social
life it is almost the whole. The hunter talks of <q>bringing
in</q> his game. Australians, Hottentots and Digger
<pb n='024'/><anchor id='Pg024'/>
Indians lived by carrying themselves from one supply
of food to another.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Transformation in production.</hi>&mdash;Much of the material
gathered by us needs some change of form to suit
our wants. An ax-helve has in it the original wood of
the young hickory brought from the forest, but its
form is fashioned by effort with ax, drawshave,
scraper and sandpaper, until it satisfies the judgment
of an expert chopper. This transformation is employed
in any industries where wood, ivory, the metals and
other minerals are shaped by tools, or by molding, or
pressing or bending, to our wishes. Most fabrics are
materials put into form. The word manufacture covers
most of such work where materials are manipulated by
shaping; but it also includes many operations with a
different aim, to change the substance itself.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Transmutation in production.</hi>&mdash;Men have found that
two metals, tin and copper, melted together produce
brass, different in qualities from either. Farmers have
for many centuries contrived, by keeping nature's forces
under control in the wheat field, to combine certain
elements of the soil, including its moisture, into grain.
The single seed has multiplied a hundredfold through
being placed in favorable conditions, with the raw
materials at hand in the fertile soil.
</p>

<p>
The process of maintaining animals with suitable
food for the production of milk or flesh is similar. The
combination of flour, water, salt and yeast, by heat,
first mild and then intense, into a loaf of bread is a
good illustration of a change of qualities by rearrangement
of the elements of a substance. It is sometimes
<pb n='025'/><anchor id='Pg025'/>
called transmutation, and comes the nearest possible to
creation of material things. The chemist's laboratory
exists for making such new combinations, and many of
the arts produce materials, like steel, which would not
exist without such combination. But many have seen in
the art of agriculture a most prominent illustration of
transmuting coarser elements into products adapted to
human wants for food, shelter and adornment. All
such work, however, is done by bringing objects and
forces into such contact that chemical or vital changes
will take place while we wait.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Production extended.</hi>&mdash;In all these three directions,
or in any combination of them, transporting, transforming
and transmuting materials, men seek the production
of a supply for meeting anticipated wants, and
so contribute directly or indirectly to welfare. No one
way of producing what men need, where they need it,
and when they need it, has any superior claim to the
name production. All are making the material yield up
welfare to the one who needs it, and produce wealth just
so far as their services are necessary in bringing the
welfare. If ever any step in the process becomes useless,
it ceases to be productive of wealth and becomes
waste. The inventive powers of mankind are always at
work to shorten the processes and hasten the advantages
of production. Men study the minutest workings
of nature to find the conditions under which she does
her part of the work. The application of such minute
knowledge is a chief part of every art. This is also the
object of science; for, as Guizot says, <q>It only began to
have a well defined existence when it confined itself to
<pb n='026'/><anchor id='Pg026'/>
seeking the <q>how</q> rather than the <q>why</q> of nature's
workings.</q> This purpose sustains in the United States
more than fifty agricultural experiment stations, united
in a great organization, to find how the natural forces
used by farmers do their work.
</p>

<p>
This prophecy of a noted economist is warranted:
<q>Probably the greatest economic revolution which the
youth of today may in his old age behold, will be found
in this all-important branch of our industries.</q> When
we know how nature works, we can adjust our little
motions in time and place to promote that work; we
shall have the art of moving things to suit our needs.
Nothing can be truer than Tennyson's line, <q>We rule
by obeying nature's powers.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='027'/><anchor id='Pg027'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter II. Forces In Production Of Wealth.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Nature.</hi>&mdash;When men learn to meet their wants by
exertion in accord with nature's ways, they are said to
use the forces of nature in production of wealth. Every
accumulation of materials for satisfying future needs
implies some control over natural objects. If advantage
is taken of natural motions or other activities to bring
about larger accumulation, the man whose plans secure
this has gained control over, and so property-rights in,
the natural force which he has harnessed. The wind
caught by a sail and the water controlled by a dam contribute
to the power, and indirectly to the wealth, of
the man who contrives to make them move things for
him. The directive actions of men necessarily appropriate
the natural objects which they use, together with
all the qualities of those objects.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Energy.</hi>&mdash;Human exertion produces wealth, as we
have seen, whenever it anticipates and provides for
future wants by securing at hand the things to be
used. So far as this anticipation includes control of
forces or qualities in nature, these natural agencies
contribute to wealth of individuals or communities. So
voluntary human exertion is combined with involuntary
forces of outside nature to give wealth. No amount of
<pb n='028'/><anchor id='Pg028'/>
gold in Alaska is wealth until some human ability has
appropriated it to human uses; but the mere fact of
locating a claim for mining purposes gives the prospector
advantage over any other man because of his
foresight. So every activity of nature may become a
factor in wealth by human ingenuity in making it
useful.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Natural forces.</hi>&mdash;Such natural agencies for producing
wealth are seen in the simple properties of material
bodies, such as the metals or woods or grains or
fruits or flowers possess. We secure these properties
for our uses. Gravity, sound, heat, light, electricity,
chemical affinity, crystallization, even life itself, are
names for certain forms of energy in nature which men
are using more or less to meet their wants. Whenever
exertion is needed to provide for using these, the
thought of wealth is connected with the forces themselves.
The fish in the sea and rivers become wealth to
one who has caught them, and even more distinctly the
property of the community which has protected them in
breeding. Sunlight may reach all alike in welfare, but
the man who has contrived to make it print pictures for
him has made sunlight into wealth in the picture.
Equally so the farmer's energy and contrivance use the
properties of soil and climate and the vital energies of
seeds to make wealth in a crop.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Control for welfare.</hi>&mdash;As each individual worker
gains control over any of these properties or forces he
advances in wealth and welfare. It becomes his own
means of meeting wants. If all individuals in a community
share in such control, they think of the good
<pb n='029'/><anchor id='Pg029'/>
things as part of the general welfare, and do not
enumerate them in anybody's wealth except when
comparing their own condition with that of another
community. Advantages of this kind constantly tend
to become more universal, and so to count very little
in individual wealth. Many advantages of civilization
today belong to all the world alike, so that nature
seems to meet our wants gratuitously; but the story of
progress shows that these are gifts inherited from the
wealth of past ages. The human exertion which they
once cost is overlooked in the ease of the present.
Mere fire was once a treasure to be cherished and kept
at much expenditure of strength and foresight. Now
we kindle a fire so easily that nobody thinks of it as a
part of the world's wealth.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Land as a force.</hi>&mdash;Land represents a combination of
natural energies and properties so important as to be
named sometimes as a distinct force in production. It
implies, first, needed space for various kinds of exertion
in both country and town. Second, it includes all mineral,
vegetable and animal bodies that are found above,
on or under the surface. Third, it is soil, an essential
part of a farmer's equipment in using nature's
processes of growth.
</p>

<p>
As most of these properties of land can be put to
use only by repeated and continued exertion in the same
place, a large portion of the earth is necessarily apportioned
to individual control, i. e., to the ownership of
those who can direct its uses, and so it becomes wealth.
The sea in most of its uses to men requires no such
local control, and so is not owned by a nation even;
<pb n='030'/><anchor id='Pg030'/>
but the harbors, ships and wharves, the oyster-beds
and fishing banks, soon become the property of some
body of men that will make and keep them useful.
Even a pathway over the high seas may yet be controlled
for the safety of the huge steamers that dash
across.
</p>

<p>
Land, except when used for absolutely universal
welfare, must be under individual control, and even
then other individuals may have the right of way
because of its necessity in the common use. Peculiarities
of property in land arising from limitations in
quantity or quality will be spoken of under <hi rend='italic'>Scarcity
Prices</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>Rent</hi>. They differ from similar questions as
to any other form of property only because this form of
property seems more permanent. Any force of nature
brought under control by individual effort contributes
to wealth of individuals till all gain equal control.
Peculiarities of climate affect the quality of wool, cotton,
grains and fruit, and even the beef and mutton raised
under it. But these effects we connect with the land.
Such peculiarities also affect manufactures of various
kinds, and so location has value.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Effort for gain.</hi>&mdash;Voluntary human effort is always
made with the expectation of gain from its exertion;
otherwise it would not be made. As Guizot says, <q>Our
ideal is to procure the maximum of utility with the
minimum of effort.</q> The exertion is always counted in
the cost of any product, whatever the natural forces
employed. If the crop fails, or the product is
unsalable, the effort has lost its expected reward, and
prospective losses are estimated with more or less care
<pb n='031'/><anchor id='Pg031'/>
in judging whether a product is worth the exertion. The
half crop of a droughty year costs as much as the full
crop of a plenteous year, and compensation for the loss
is expected from the surplus of the full crop.
</p>

<p>
In estimating the exertion given, all human energies
are counted, whether they belong to the present, like
muscular power, good eyesight, quick intelligence; or to
the past, like dexterity from training, superior knowledge,
accumulated tools, established character. If the
immediate exertion is most prominent, the word labor
includes the whole exertion. If tools and machinery
are used, capital is a contributor to the product and
takes its share. If skill or knowledge or character
become important, personal attainments are a chief
cause of the product, and so a chief claimant in the
reward.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='032'/><anchor id='Pg032'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<anchor id='Chapter_III'/>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter III. Labor Defined And Classified.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Labor defined.</hi>&mdash;Exertion of any kind for meeting
individual wants we call labor, whether it simply gathers
food from the forest, or contrives the most intricate
machinery for satisfying wants that may take years to
grow. Exertion that has no end beyond itself, no matter
how severe it may be, we call play, and consider it
important in public welfare only as it aids in health and
morals. Labor is separated, too, from all exertions to
destroy or injure the welfare of others, if we can see
their object. Any person claiming to labor professes to
have given his exertions for the satisfaction of somebody's
wants without doing violence to the welfare of
others in the community. Whenever we do not assume
this we concede a state of war, violence and destruction
taking the place of production and accumulation. These
may require exertions usually classed with labor; but
are punished instead of being rewarded, unless we can
establish their final advantage in a larger welfare for
humanity, or in defense of society.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Productive labor.</hi>&mdash;The various classifications of
labor serve merely to call attention to peculiar relations
implied in the results. If exertion results in giving additional
wealth, or power to produce wealth, it is called
<pb n='033'/><anchor id='Pg033'/>
productive labor; but if it contributes only to immediate
comfort or pleasure or safety it is called unproductive.
The distinction is useful so far as it enables
us to be prudent in adjusting energies to meet real
wants. All labor is maintained by the product of exertions.
Any labor expended without a product must be
provided for by an increased product from some other
form of labor. A farmer may sustain life upon the
food he raises; but the wife who makes his house a home
cannot live on the product of her labors. She may add
to the value of some products directly, as in turning
milk into butter, and raw materials into palatable food;
but her chief energy may be in getting satisfaction for
the household out of materials gained by her husband.
Both are essential to the welfare of either, and prudence
requires a proper adjustment between them. A force of
physicians may be needed to keep a community in working
condition; but if a whole community tried to live as
doctors some other community must furnish the material
wealth to sustain them.
</p>

<p>
Any increase of labor upon material products, either
directly or indirectly, may increase ability to meet future
wants, while increase of labor upon present uses of
wealth may diminish ability for the future. The wealth
of a community is the product of all the labors that
contribute to make material nature useful. This classification
is important in studying the question of productive
consumption of wealth, but does not decide which
gives best results. It is a serious error to assume that
the worker, whose labor is directly applied to materials,
gives to our wealth all its value. If several men are
<pb n='034'/><anchor id='Pg034'/>
building a house, one may contribute as much to the
building by cooking for the rest as if he worked in turn
in the construction. In the same way all the household,
if well ordered, aid toward the result of their united
labors. The physician who shortens the illness of a
farmer contributes his share toward raising the farmer's
crop. The lawyer who makes property safer, and the
minister who gives stronger motives for exertion, are
sharers in the force that brings the product.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Physical, mental, moral labor.</hi>&mdash;The classification of
labor according to the powers employed serves to call
attention to the wide range of exertions rightly classed
as labor. If the exertion is chiefly muscular, labor of
hands, shoulders, legs or any part of the body, it is
properly called physical. If the main effort is that of
the intellect in planning, inventing, contriving ways and
means, or in remembering, counting or thinking of any
kind, it is just as truly labor, but mental. If the chief
exertion is in the good will that resists temptations,
guards interests, controls violence and folly, secures
order and devises liberal things for society, the labor
is moral. Moral labor is often recognized in wages,
faithfulness being more important in some services
than in others, and paid for. Mechanical devices for
promoting honesty or watchfulness may save, in part,
moral labor.
</p>

<p>
This view of labor helps us to see the wide range of
efforts that unite in production of wealth, since all the
energies of a man may be employed in his work. The
successful farmer is one who makes the most of all his
abilities&mdash;his muscles, his mind and his heart&mdash;and
<pb n='035'/><anchor id='Pg035'/>
his hard work is far from being confined to his hands.
The three kinds of labor are combined in some proportion
in every life, but the best and most productive life
his most room for hard thinking and self-control.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Operative, executive, speculative labor.</hi>&mdash;In the advancing
complexity of society a still more important classification
of labor is apparent. If a man's effort of any
kind is simply to follow directions in an established
routine, it is called operative labor, and the laborer becomes
an operative. He works usually by the day,
hour or piece, under a foreman or overseer. Beyond
the task set for him, he has no thought nor will. Over
him is a director&mdash;the foreman, overseer, contractor or
boss&mdash;whose chief effort is to carry forward to completion
some plan committed to him as a trust. The foreman's
labor is largely mental and moral in adjusting
tasks and keeping the operatives, <q>the hands,</q> well employed.
This is well named executive labor, and requires
peculiar abilities and character.
</p>

<p>
Still farther away from the mere task is the effort
that devises the plan; adjusts part to part, decides upon
materials suitable for each part, establishes the ideal of
excellence for every part and for the whole, and foresees
its actual uses. Invention of every kind illustrates the
exertion of foresight in planning, but such exertion is
not confined to technical invention. The farmer who
lies awake nights to plan his year's work so that he may
have the largest returns for his undertakings in marketable
products, gives the same kind of effort as the inventor.
A good name for this is speculative labor,&mdash;an
exertion to foresee and provide for future needs of
society.
</p>

<pb n='036'/><anchor id='Pg036'/>

<p>
In much of farm life all these are mingled: the
same man devises the plan, executes his own ideas,
and performs the tasks himself. But every one realizes
the difference of success growing out of the planning.
Many a good man needs to follow another's plans, and
not a few <q>work better for others than they can for
themselves.</q> In some great undertakings the projector
and planner, the contractor and overseer and the worker
of details are necessarily separated. This may be well
illustrated in the construction of a great building, for
which an architect gives all attention to a plan, and may
require a considerable force of assistants and draftsmen
to embody his ideas on paper; then contractors, one or
several, secure material, employ men and direct them
in placing materials in form and combination to suit the
plans; but a host of workmen move as directed at the
will of a foreman to pile brick, mortar, stone, iron or
timber according to the plan. The labor of the architect
makes possible the entire structure&mdash;makes the
work for all that enter into his labors.
</p>

<p>
This classification into speculative, executive and
operative labor helps to a fair estimate in sharing the
proceeds of combined labors, and gives a proper importance
to the inventive and foreseeing energy which causes
the growth of civilization. <emph>That form of exertion which
has done most to meet the world's wants is speculative
labor.</emph>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Invention in farming.</hi>&mdash;A capital illustration of
speculative labor, productive in the highest degree, is
the invention of reaping machinery. The inventor has
gained riches by his contrivance, but the world has
<pb n='037'/><anchor id='Pg037'/>
gained far more by his foresight and ingenuity. Similar
energy has been put into all labor-saving machinery,
and still plays an important part in devising the best
uses for it.
</p>

<p>
Every farmer has a similar need of planning for
every field he plows. There is a certain draft for each
horse, a certain speed for the plow, a certain adjustment
of harness to the team, which gives a full return for the
force employed. A failure to find this causes waste.
All the effort of scientific research into causes and conditions
of growth or disease of plants and animals is
speculative labor, out of which the next advance of
agriculture must come. The mere operative power of
a laborer can be supplanted by brute force or by machinery,
but nothing can ever supplant the intelligent
foresight that invents, plans and devises the end to be
reached, and the ways and the means for reaching it.
</p>

<p>
The very foundation of any success in farming is
clear foresight and distinct planning for a succession of
crops, each to be tended, harvested, stored and marketed
in the very nick of time. The best energy of every
farmer is properly given to finding what crop to raise,
how and when to have it ready for the world that is
going to need it. He best meets his own daily wants
when <q>Mr. Contrivance</q> stands by him in all his efforts.
This contrivance is the chief exertion of a successful
farmer's life.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='038'/><anchor id='Pg038'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter IV. Capital Defined And Classified.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Capital distinguished from wealth.</hi>&mdash;Whenever material
wealth is used not directly in meeting present wants,
but to produce more wealth suited to future wants, it is
called capital. Any store of good things devoted only
to meeting wants as they come is thought of as wealth,
as well as possible capital, since at any time it may be
made the means of creating other wealth to more than
take its place. The distinction grows wholly out of the
uses of wealth, not its forms. A horse used, or to be
used, as a force in production by drawing loads is
counted as capital; but if used for mere pleasure-riding
is only wealth, which leaves no material return when
consumed. Thus the same horse may, in the hands of a
breeder, a trainer, or a liveryman be capital, but in the
hands of a fancier or a pleasure seeker be only wealth,
to be used as wanted.
</p>

<p>
Wealth in dwellings or public buildings constructed
for enjoyment rather than protection of a working community
is not capital, and may be destroyed by fire or
storm without serious disturbance of industry. The loss
is bravely met, the hardship endured and extra energy
put into restoration. A farmer may lose a fine house
and by living in less comfort for a time restore it, while
<pb n='039'/><anchor id='Pg039'/>
the loss of his teams or his barns may cripple his
industry. In the great Chicago fire of 1871 the wealth
destroyed is estimated at $50,000,000, while the loss of
actual capital may have been only $5,000,000. An
energetic use of the capital remaining wrought apparent
wonders in the restoration of wealth. Indeed,
the total capital of our country is supposed to be only
three times the annual product of industry, though
a century of labor could not restore it if destroyed
entirely, because effective tools would be wanting.
</p>

<p>
The capital of an individual is such a portion of his
wealth as he is using to maintain and increase his
wealth. The capital of a country includes all the farms,
so far as they are made such by improvements directly
or indirectly, including all ways and means of communication
and transportation, for roads contribute to all
goods drawn over them; all buildings devoted to systems
of production, including necessary protection of laborers
themselves; all tools, machines and contrivances for
power; all animals employed in connection with industry;
all materials of construction or growth; all materials
consumed in securing and maintaining power, as
fuel, lubricating oil, etc., or in performing operations of
manufacture, as dye stuffs; subsistence for the workers,
the brutes they use, and the families which keep up the
life and comfort of the people; the necessary stock in
trade, that all wants may be readily supplied; all the
machinery of trade for ready transfers, including any
actual wealth in form of money; all the governmental
machinery for protection and maintenance of order, as a
first essential to wealth-producing.
</p>

<pb n='040'/><anchor id='Pg040'/>

<p>
All these are more simply grouped in their different
relations to labor under three classes: first, as sustaining
labor by food, clothing, protection and material on
which to work; second, as aiding efficiency by tools,
machines and stored up forces; third, as stimulating
exertion by reducing present anxieties and arousing
more far-reaching plans for future undertakings, illustrated
by possession of satisfactory stocks of goods or
comfortable homes for families.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Capital a time-saver.</hi>&mdash;All these forms of wealth serve
in production by extending the possible waiting between
an effort of any kind and the greater satisfaction secured
by it. No community could begin farming as a business
until it had secured housing and seeds and tools
and provisions in some form for most of a year's sustenance.
All the capital that constructs a great thoroughfare
is used in getting ready to satisfy wants in many
future years. Capital furnishes subsistence for laborers
of every kind during those years of waiting for a product.
This is true capital, because the object of its use
is a greater product of wealth; but the product may be
long delayed. So all accumulated wealth in every form
represents sustained labor during the past. Professor
Taussig estimates the accumulation of subsistence in all
existing goods at five years of labor for the community.
The total value of farms in our country is just about
five times the average annual product of the farms,
though a large portion of the land is unused.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Capital circulating or fixed.</hi>&mdash;A further distinction is
desirable between capital in food, fuel or stock in trade,
which may be turned at a single use into new wealth,
<pb n='041'/><anchor id='Pg041'/>
and capital in buildings, bridges, roads and farms,
which may be used many times in adding new wealth
before they entirely disappear or give place to new
forms of capital. The first is called circulating capital,
and the last fixed capital.
</p>

<p>
The degree of permanence in fixed capital is indefinite
of course&mdash;even drains vary in permanence&mdash;and the line
between the two is not always easily drawn, yet the distinction
is real. Most men distinguish <q>the plant</q> in
any enterprise from <q>the current supplies,</q> and realize
that some fit proportion exists between them. A farm
well equipped can not be handled to advantage without
a proportional investment in current supplies. Many a
renter cannot pay his rent for want of means to work
his farm profitably. If the farm were given him, he
would still be hampered by the same lack of consumable
goods to turn at once into larger products. Many a
<q>land poor</q> farmer would gain at once by exchange of
acres for more <q>current supplies</q> for his farming, such
as food for help, feed for teams and stock, seed or fertilizers
for his crops, or young stock to consume the raw
product of his fields. In the fourteenth century the
stock of European farms was worth three times the value
of the farms. Similar conditions are found now in some
newer portions of the United States. It is impossible
to estimate exactly the existing ratio between fixed and
circulating capital from statistics at hand. Farmers in
older, more developed regions can use, without suffering,
a larger per cent of fixed capital than pioneers can,
because the circulation is more rapid. For the same
reason the raising of staple annual crops gives place to
<pb n='042'/><anchor id='Pg042'/>
double cropping, dairying and full feeding as land
grows more valuable, frequent returns serving instead of
large circulating capital.
</p>

<p>
In general, the wealth of a community is better judged
by its fixed capital, while its thrift is known from its
circulating capital. Fixed capital is always secured by
consumption of circulating capital. The extension of
railroads always implies great reduction of ready supplies.
Money <emph>between</emph> individuals and communities ranks
as circulating capital, but <emph>within</emph> any community the
stock of money needed for domestic trade may be
thought of as a permanent machine. Even machinery
may be circulating capital in the hands of one who
manufactures or sells it, though fixed when located in
its work, and for the whole community is <q>fixed</q> as
soon as its destined use is determined by its form. Thus
the distinction, though real, is flexible. Its importance
in discussing the industries of a country, or in understanding
the relations of various industries to each
other and to the world, will appear later in the book.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Capital unproductive.</hi>&mdash;Capital is sometimes said to
be unproductive in contrast with <emph>productive</emph>, although the
very nature of capital requires productiveness. The
occasion for this distinction is in the fact that means devoted
to future production of wealth in a particular way
may be years in returning the product; the destination
is evident and the return confidently expected, yet the
owner is without income or near prospect of income.
Such ventures are seen in the reclaiming of waste lands
by drainage, the equipment of extensive mines, and the
construction of dykes and levees. Land held for sale
<pb n='043'/><anchor id='Pg043'/>
or use in the indefinite future is a most common illustration
of unproductive capital.
</p>

<p>
If wealth in some readily exchangeable form is intended
for productive use, but is held for a satisfactory
opportunity, it is sometimes called free or <emph>floating capital</emph>.
It may be available for any temporary use, and so
afloat among a variety of investments. Some great enterprises,
like the building of the Suez canal, are begun
in view of attracting floating capital. Borrowers generally
look to such accumulations for their supply
of funds.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Capital in farming.</hi>&mdash;A clear view of the uses of
capital may be gained from estimating the needs of a
young farmer just starting out for himself. For all his
equipments he must depend upon the time and effort of
somebody embodied in form of tools, material and
sustenance, for capital in any form is simply this. A
farm of 160 acres improved, or already out of the crude
pioneer stage, represents about ten years of one man's
time, say $3,000. A house suitably furnished for himself
and his young wife means three years of time,
$1,000. His barns and corrals and intersecting fences
cost two years of time, $600. His team and stock and
the necessary tools make nearly three years of time
again, $900. Seed, feed, provisions, clothing, insurance
and wages for help, all to be used before his first
year's crop is sold, require at least $500 worth of time,
or nearly two years more. The needed capital for such
a farm thus represents full eighteen years of the time of
an able-bodied man, or $6,000. If we add to this the
cost of bringing to mature age and intelligence the three
<pb n='044'/><anchor id='Pg044'/>
able and efficient workers needed to manage and work
that farm, we shall credit the past, without counting the
time and energy of the young people themselves in
growing and learning and gaining their skill, with thirty
years of labor; $10,000, put into the farm and its occupants
as they stand ready for a year's work. This accumulation
is likely to show all the forms of capital
described.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Capital conservative.</hi>&mdash;Capital, especially in fixed
forms, being in its nature the conserving of energy, is
necessarily an incentive to conservatism in society, since
any great and sudden changes in the habits of a community
involve rapid consumption or destruction of
capital. Capital is said to be <q>timid.</q> This statement
means simply that all owners and users of capital who
realize the time required for accumulating it hesitate to
risk its destruction in doubtful enterprises, uncertain
confidence or venturesome experiments in government or
financiering. War, riots, or even revenue laws, may
destroy fixed capital that has been the growth of a century.
A small change in tariff laws has rendered useless
immense factories. For the same reason farmers,
having so large a fixed capital in farms and farm machinery,
do not take kindly to political changes involving
doubtful consequences. States where the capital is still
circulating may readily venture upon experiments financial
or political, since little time is lost even in destructive
results. People in new countries take risks readily
because they have less to risk.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='045'/><anchor id='Pg045'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter V. Personal Attainments.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Accumulated energies.</hi>&mdash;The force accumulated
through personal effort in training, education and
discipline is similar to capital in the fact that it represents
a period of time between the effort and its full
accomplishment, and that it is devoted to production
of wealth. It differs from capital in being immaterial
human energy, exceedingly useful in combination with
capital, but a part of the laborer, not his tools. It
is gained by devoting time, attention, thought and
practice to acquiring methods of greatest efficiency in
any act of labor. It requires surplus energy in labor at
any task to gain, not only the material result, but
power to do the same task better and more easily next
time. All the time expended in acquiring such powers
is put into the value of what is finally produced. Any
peculiar tact or ability developed becomes an essential
part of individual powers, and its product, like that of
any form of exertion, becomes the property of the individual.
</p>

<p>
In this way, not only is the cost of gaining skill
or education, or of establishing habits, returned in
the product, but often a considerable increment, or
gain, from the larger demand for such abilities. A
<pb n='046'/><anchor id='Pg046'/>
skilled artisan's labor meets more urgent demands for
its use.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Skill.</hi>&mdash;If this extra exertion takes the form of training
muscles, nerves and brain to act with speed and
accuracy as judgment directs, we call the attainment
<emph>skill</emph>. Even if the action required is simple, dexterity
comes only by practice, and in special cases may multiply
the product many times. Two men may shear sheep
with equal accuracy, but one has three times the speed
of the other. His skill secures employment at three
times the wages of the other, with profit to the employer,
because the extra speed saves room, attendance
and risk over employing three men at one-third the rate.
The shearer profits by the rarity of his skill in getting
the wages of three men, with the support of but one, and
in more constant employment. When the operation is
more complex, and success involves larger interests,
skill counts indefinitely more, and as society grows
complex the room for exercise of skill becomes larger
and more varied. The wide difference between pioneer
farming and market-gardening illustrates this. The
history of agriculture shows the slow development of
skill in the furrow, the ditch and hedge, and in the
handling and breeding of stock. Farmers once barely
scratched an acre a day with their rude plow and were
long in learning the use of a harrow. No attempt, according
to Professor Rogers, to improve the breeds of
cattle and sheep appeared before the eighteenth century
in England. Most early improvements in farming skill
came from the industrious monks, whose intelligence
fostered skill.
</p>

<pb n='047'/><anchor id='Pg047'/>

<p>
The advantage given by skill perpetuates skill from
generation to generation through aptitude and superior
training, and so the people of a neighborhood or a
country may inherit such power in contrast with other
regions. <q>Yankee ingenuity</q> has become proverbial
through such natural extension.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Discipline.</hi>&mdash;Education serves the same purpose by
acquisition of knowledge in such ways as to give wisdom
in its application. It involves an exercise of intelligence
to the establishing of sound judgment. Broader
than skill in its range, it increases the possibilities of
skill as storage of power. The skill of the surgeon
would never have existed but for the brightening of his
intelligence by education. The electrician's training
depends upon a broad foundation of education in
knowledge of the matters he handles so dextrously. In
farming, this source of stored up power has until very
recently been ignored. While men in many professions
were multiplying their individual power by spending
youth in school, the farm boy would be simply trained
at the plow, without the enlargement of practice in
thinking required elsewhere. Such education has
become at length, like skill, a requisite of each generation
in order that our civilization may be maintained.
For this the states build and the nation sustains agricultural
colleges.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Character.</hi>&mdash;Just as important, though often overlooked
in enumerating economic forces, is the acquired
personal habit of self-control. Without it both skill
and education avail but little, and it may do its work
independently of both. <q>Tried and trusted</q> expresses
<pb n='048'/><anchor id='Pg048'/>
our estimate of the importance of long practice of
virtue in meeting obstacles. The formation of habits&mdash;personal,
business and moral,&mdash;is a matter of time and
discipline. It costs exertion through a series of years;
but the power accumulated may be needed only once, in
some great emergency.
</p>

<p>
The character of the workman, the tradesman and
the farmer enters more or less into the product of his
toil and gives it value. Though I may not care from
whence come the shoes I wear, or the butter I eat, I
do care for the genuineness of both, for which I must
depend upon the genuine character of the makers and
sellers of both. This, too, is maintained from generation
to generation by its successful use in acquiring
both power and wealth. It cannot be had without the
expenditure of time, energy and means of the fathers
and mothers of one age upon their successors.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Importance of attainments.</hi>&mdash;All these personal
attainments, whether confined to individuals or extended
over whole communities, must be reckoned
among producing powers and reckoned with in estimate
of earnings. A community deficient in either is low in
ability to supply its own wants or the world's wants,
and no amount of material capital can take their place.
They are superior to capital in being less destructible
by fire or flood, and more easily turned to account in
new enterprises as needed. No capital is perpetual,
even in most fixed forms, nor is any personal attainment
sure to remain of direct use; but the latter has a
larger expectation of usefulness and greater permanence
in the economy of nations.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='049'/><anchor id='Pg049'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter VI. Combination Of Forces For Individual Efficiency.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Ideal manliness.</hi>&mdash;Every community has highest efficiency
and best civilization when each individual member
has the largest range of abilities to meet wants, and
the largest range of wants to be met. An ideal civilization
involves the distinct aim of gaining for each
mature person in any association the fullest development
of all abilities and all materials and tools for
their use. This is amply illustrated in a family of well
grown, well trained, well educated, trustworthy men and
women with sufficient capital under control to maintain
the highest activity of every personal power and attainment.
Childhood and old age must always be provided
for by exertions of those whose abilities are in their
prime, and accidental weakness of every kind is met
from the same strength.
</p>

<p>
Any mature person is best equipped for productive
industry when, sound in both body and mind, he has
the accumulated energy of the past for his use in the
shape of capital and hereditary traits, together with
skill, education and established character. Such a man
is recognized at once to have his place among <q>the
heirs of all the ages in the foremost files of time.</q> Any
<pb n='050'/><anchor id='Pg050'/>
people claiming leadership among nations must depend
upon its representatives of such a fully equipped body
of men for that leadership.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>From savage to enlightened.</hi>&mdash;The increasing importance
of such full manliness, as society becomes more
complex in both wants and efforts, is easily seen. In
ruder life muscular energy and endurance, with some
slight ingenuity, are sufficient to meet the ruder needs,
with some chance of saving for future wants of a growing
family, which will continue the same round of
muscular contest with savage conditions.
</p>

<p>
The American Indians have given the fairest exhibition
of the kind of welfare which such exertion and
accumulation afford. The weak disappear quickly, because
the strong have too little surplus of energy to care
for them. Among those left, both burdens and means
of satisfaction are quite equally distributed, because of
essentially equal powers of exertion. But in older and
more civilized communities large portions of the people
are dependent upon the rest for knowledge, ingenuity
and skill to keep the very much larger supply of
material needed for maintaining the civilization. At
this stage of progress a man with only muscular development
finds himself entirely dependent upon some one
else for the plans by which all must live. A savage cannot
share equally with the wise man either in the burden
of caring for the community or in the welfare which the
community enjoys.
</p>

<p>
It is easy to see that the relative importance of accumulated
wealth in the shape of capital or of skill or of
the character which results from generations of training,
<pb n='051'/><anchor id='Pg051'/>
becomes more and more distinct as the community becomes
more developed. Any man, then, who is lacking
capital, skill and morals, or all three, is in some respects
like the savage, and will find his equals among the
savages. For this reason a pioneer country affords
opportunity for a youth without skill or personal attainments
of any kind <q>to grow up with the country;</q> and
the famous advice, <q>Go west, young man, go west,</q>
applies strictly to such a youth, and with less and less
directness in proportion as the young man has control
of himself and of accumulated wealth.
</p>

<p>
A simple diagram (Chart <ref target='Chart_III'>III</ref>) may illustrate the
progress of civilization from the general poverty and
inefficiency of rude pioneer life to the power of a
thoroughly organized and developed community. The
poor man, in the sense of one whose abilities are
undeveloped and who has no visible means of support,
is relatively less able to care for himself in the enlightened
community than in the ruder pioneer life. In this
sense, and this alone, the poor man grows poorer with
advancing civilization. This may easily be seen by
comparing a thrifty farming community of today and
all the accumulated stock, machinery and tools of the
farms, with the same community sixty years earlier,
when all was practically wilderness. A strong man
with an ax and a hoe could enter the wilderness anywhere
and live nearly as well as any of his neighbors.
Such a man in the higher country life of our times must
work for some one else at wages, or must be supported
at public expense. In either case he feels his poverty.
At the same time, the extreme of suffering is less likely
<pb n='053'/><anchor id='Pg053'/>
to be reached in the richer community. The poorest
man has comforts of which the pioneers never dreamed.
Even a tramp can live on the fat of the land, but not by
his own exertions. The failure of a crop in the pioneer
country means starvation for a large portion of the few
inhabitants. A failure in the older community means
suffering for a few in diminished food and clothing, but
all live on the accumulations of the past.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <anchor id='Chart_III'/>
  <figure url='images/chart-iii.png' rend='width: 80%'>
    <head>Chart III. Illustrating the relative importance of labor and saving, in the
progress of civilization from its beginnings in pioneer life.</head>
    <figDesc>Chart.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Developing civilization.</hi>&mdash;This essential advantage of
accumulating power in individuals, as civilization
advances, is necessarily connected with the very nature
of civilization and growth. As no conceivable device
can make a babe as efficient as a man, so no contrivance,
political or social, can make an undeveloped man
equal to a fully developed one.
</p>

<p>
The intense community of interests in high civilization
makes even more important the individual abilities
of each sharer in those interests. For this reason every
device for universal education, development of skill and
strengthening of character, and every check upon
deterioration of personal strength or wisdom or virtue
is to be considered. Any neglect of the individual in
his development of personal attainments retards the
development of the community. Any device for the
equal distribution of wealth which does not increase
individual thrift in the use of wealth at least retards
the growth of the community, and may very quickly
reduce the power of the community as a whole until it
reaches the inefficiency of savage life.
</p>

<p>
All true charity, even equity, requires that the object
of distribution of wealth shall be the greater efficiency
<pb n='054'/><anchor id='Pg054'/>
of each individual. If there shall ever be a community
of individuals gaining equal enjoyment, it will be
made up of those possessing essential equality in
personal powers and attainments, and in accumulated
capital as well.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='055'/><anchor id='Pg055'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter VII. Methods Of Association.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Simple association.</hi>&mdash;While the absolute equality of
individuals referred to in the preceding chapter is practically
impossible, the community of interests as civilization
advances becomes much closer through various
plans of association of individuals in common work.
Indeed, the community is a community because a multitude
of individuals work together. The simplest form
of association is seen where men work in gangs, all
acting alike, as in lifting a log or a rock, hoeing the
field, or in building an embankment by shoveling.
Among farmers the habit of exchanging work, so common
in pioneer settlements, illustrates the advantage of
combination. This may be called simple association, by
which many hands make light work.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Complex association.</hi>&mdash;A more complex association
is found in even the rudest settlement when one man
undertakes a particular kind of labor for all his neighbors,
they in turn doing a different kind of work for
him. A farmer in a new settlement found the children
of himself and neighbors without a school, and agreed
for several winters to teach a school as many days as
his neighbors would chop in his clearing. This association
cleared the land and supplied the school. Such
<pb n='056'/><anchor id='Pg056'/>
exchanges of labor develop rapidly in every growing
community and form the basis of a most extensive commerce.
When <q>Adam delved and Eve span</q> the family
was far better provided for than if both had undertaken
to delve and spin. The fair exchange of products
makes each man's product more useful to both himself
and his neighborhood. Such association is less noticeable
in a community of farmers, where all are seeking
essentially the same products, than in almost any other
community. Yet the presence of the blacksmith, the
shoemaker, the wagonmaker and the tailor contribute
very largely to the comfort of all concerned.
</p>

<p>
One chief disadvantage of farms remote from villages
is the want of ready exchange, or association by
different employments. The part which such exchange
plays in the accumulation and distribution of the wealth
of the world is so great that several chapters will be
needed to present its importance. The study of exchanges
is sometimes thought to cover the whole question
of wealth. It is often treated as separate from
production. But its advantages and disadvantages are
most easily seen by considering all its bearings upon the
increased product of a multitude of workers.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Compound association.</hi>&mdash;A still closer association,
sometimes called compound association, is found where
several workers combine efforts of different kinds in a
single finished product. It is easily illustrated in an
ordinary dairy, where one of the family drives up the
cows, another does the milking, another sets the milk
and cares for the purity of all utensils, another perhaps
skims the milk and churns the butter, and still another
<pb n='057'/><anchor id='Pg057'/>
works and packs it. All this labor of many hands has
its importance represented in the butter packed for use.
The particular advantages of this division of labor will
be treated in a future chapter.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Aggregation of forces.</hi>&mdash;A still further advance in
association appears when many laborers in many ways,
with multitudes of tools and machinery, are combined in
a huge establishment in such a way as to employ all
efficiently. This is illustrated in the so-called bonanza
farms of the west, but more distinctly appears in the
great manufactories, or in any extensive coperation or
great enterprise. A study of these will also require a
future chapter.
</p>

<p>
While all these methods of association blend with
and into each other in every kind of community, a
careful analysis of each is necessary to a full understanding
of their relation to welfare. For this reason
it is best to analyze and illustrate each by itself. The
succeeding chapters will take up all the intricacies of
exchange before presenting the special advantages and
disadvantages of technical division of labor and of great
corporations.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='058'/><anchor id='Pg058'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter VIII. Exchange: Advantages, Limitations And
Tendencies.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Exchange in production.</hi>&mdash;The immense importance
of exchange in promoting the welfare of communities is
easily granted, and is illustrated in every village store
or even in every simple farming community. Today the
market for farm products is easily felt to be the most
important consideration, and weighs in every farmer's
mind when buying or selling his farm. When a state
like Kansas raises from six to ten times as much wheat
as its people can use, exchange is evidently an essential
factor in every farmer's welfare.
</p>

<p>
The multitude of everyday wants in most households
supplied only through commerce shows the extent and
importance of this exchange of labor throughout the
world. The great advantages, however; may be seen
by a little more careful analysis of the growth of individual
powers under a ready system of exchange. Every
laborer becomes effective by experience in some particular
industry. A thousand years will not perfect a single
worker in any of the thousands of employments needed
to supply his wants. Every farmer knows the weakness
of a beginner in farming, coming from any other business;
and without exchange, every workman must always
<pb n='059'/><anchor id='Pg059'/>
be a beginner in everything. Exchange is one of the
chief motives to accumulation, since others' wants as
well as our own are kept in view. The <q>hand to
mouth</q> liver is almost always a man of all work, thinking
little of exchange. It is especially a stimulant to
saving, since it makes capital itself more useful and
brings it directly into competition with all other forces.
Products stored in the granary have their significance
because of exchange.
</p>

<p>
Still more important is the cultivation of special
abilities, impossible without exchange. The indefinitely
varied powers of human nature are made most
useful where each can devote his talent to a definite
business; and usually the talent best fitted to a business
is attracted toward it. Habits, too, which are
the chief labor-saving characteristics in human nature;
become all-important, and enable an individual to do a
large part of his work with the least possible care.
The routine of everyday life is followed with little effort
or pain. The more regular the routine the easier it is
to follow.
</p>

<p>
A still greater advantage to communities is found
in the enlargement of the range of wants in all individuals.
The superiority of enlightened men over savages
is largely due to their greatly increased needs, since
necessity, the mother of invention, compels exertion and
finds the way to satisfaction. It seems, however, that
exchange contributes most extensively to welfare by
combining individuals into a community, and smaller
communities into a larger, until the whole world is
brought into sympathy. Thus every human being
<pb n='060'/><anchor id='Pg060'/>
gains the advantage of growth in mind and character
through some contact with every other human being
within the commercial world. If ever a reign of
peace and plenty shall extend over the world, no one
doubts the importance of commerce and intimate exchange
in bringing that time. The full advantage of
free exchange in promoting human welfare cannot be
over-estimated.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Exchange limited by powers.</hi>&mdash;With all its advantages,
there are certain obstacles in the way of its extension,
always more or less effective in limiting its range. A
community can have few exchanges among individuals
if all are busied in the same or similar trades. A farming
community has little need of buying and selling
among the farmers. A horse trade or an exchange of
one brute for another may supply all necessities. In
larger communities similar limitations are found where
abilities are similar, or where habits in education, government
or religion are very uniform. In such cases
opportunities for exchange are limited, and commerce
itself grows slowly.
</p>

<p>
The story of pioneer settlements is uniformly one of
slow and uncertain commerce for want of the variety in
wants and abilities which makes the very foundation of
exchange. Sometimes <q>day's work for day's work</q> is
the limit of exchange throughout a whole region or
country. In the world at large limitations often arise
from hostile feelings between nations, and as yet the
highest freedom of exchange between people under different
governments has seldom been reached. The
United States affords the brightest example of people
<pb n='061'/><anchor id='Pg061'/>
with varied characteristics developed through the stimulating
effect of ready exchange.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Commerce over-estimated.</hi>&mdash;So rapid has been the advancement
of systems of exchange within the last half
century that men are prone to over-estimate the importance
of commerce and its interests. The amount of
wealth in motion exaggerates the importance of wealth
itself, so that multitudes overlook the foundation in productive
industry, and become mere bettors upon the
market, attempting to catch a part of the moving wealth
as it passes. Any speculation in mere commercial transactions
may become a very serious obstacle to legitimate
industry by its effect upon both the industry itself
and the incentives to industry among the people. This
danger is increased by the greatly extended interest in
exchange among the rural population.
</p>

<p>
Scarcely a farmer in our country is beyond the effect
of any extensive commerce throughout the world. The
crops of South America and of the Russian plains are
now as important to a farmer of Dakota as his own,
since all must find a common market in the manufacturing
countries of Europe. Speculation on the Chicago
Board of Trade is likely to be as interesting to a farmer
in Nebraska as to members of the Board. He is even
tempted to try his hand at speculation, either directly
through a commission house or indirectly through the
marketing of his grain. In either case he is caught by
the dangerous motion of modern commerce. The chief
remedy for these tendencies must be found in a wider
acquaintance with the facts of commercial life and a
clearer perception of what is genuine commerce.
</p>

<pb n='062'/><anchor id='Pg062'/>

<p>
Every farmer needs to distinguish, and distinguish
carefully, the actual, necessary machinery of trade and
the principles underlying it, that he may appreciate the
genuine and oppose the false. On this account several
chapters are given to questions of exchange, with an
effort to bring into more prominent light the ways in
which all commerce affects the farmer's life.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='063'/><anchor id='Pg063'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter IX. Value The Basis Of Exchange.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The nature of value.</hi>&mdash;Perhaps no question in the discussion
of wealth is of greater importance than the
nature of value. Certainly the measurement of value in
all our property is the basis of all exchanges, of all book
accounts, and of all inventories. The worth of any
piece of property in such estimates always involves some
comparison, either of things possessed or of exertion
required or of satisfaction yielded. In comparing an
apple and a peach, both equally attainable, we may
value the peach most highly because it gratifies desires
in higher degree. Thinking of future uses, we may
value the apple more highly because it will keep longer,
and so be available for future wants. In considering
all the kinds of satisfaction to be provided for, we may
think of the peach as desired by more people who are
likely to render us service, and therefore more readily
exchangeable, and so of higher value. Again, the peach
may be at the top of the tree and the apple within reach,
in which case we may think whether the peach will give
enough greater satisfaction to make it worth the greater
exertion to get it. In this way a single individual, who
has wants to be gratified only by exertion, forms an idea
of value as founded upon some relation between his
<pb n='064'/><anchor id='Pg064'/>
wants and his powers, between the desires to be gratified
and the qualities of the object expected to give
satisfaction.
</p>

<p>
Since wealth always implies an accumulated store of
good things, every one comes to think of the worth
of his accumulation as estimated by what it will do at
any time, in any place, in satisfying any need. So,
most naturally, we associate our ideas of value with
trade. An exchange of horses brings in not only the
present qualities of each horse for present service, but all
the qualities and circumstances affecting the possibilities
of disposing of the horse whenever something else is
needed more. An expert judge of horses not only
knows when the horse is sound in wind and limb, and
what are the signs of docility, speed, etc., but also what
the rest of the world considers the qualities of a satisfactory
horse. In all experience peculiar circumstances,
varying the relation between wants and satisfaction,
affect immensely our estimate of value. When an
ancient king shouted, <q>My kingdom for a horse!</q> he
was doubtless moved by the uselessness of a kingdom to
one about to lose his life in battle for want of a horse
and also by the difficulty at that particular moment of
gaining a horse.
</p>

<p>
In ordinary experience everybody estimates value by
some comparison with what he can obtain in exchange.
A picture of a friend may be priceless in two senses:
first, of so great importance to its owner that nothing
can buy it; second, of so little importance to anybody
else that nobody will give anything for it. In any
inventory of wealth the picture could not be counted;
<pb n='065'/><anchor id='Pg065'/>
it is valueless. But in any judgment of personal welfare
it may be beyond price. So, in the universal
experience, the term value has come to be used as
essentially connected with exchanges and with property
as stored to meet all kinds of wants.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Value in services.</hi>&mdash;In a similar way experience has
developed the idea of value with reference to services.
A service may be invaluable, as when a physician saves
the life of his patient, but the value of that service is
estimated by the return expected in the community
where the physician and his patient live. Many services
of highest usefulness and most important in welfare cannot
be valued in terms of wealth, because no wealth can
secure them. Love and patriotism and philanthropy
cannot be had for wealth. But in comparison of two
services rendered for hire, both are measured by their
general utility, either directly or indirectly, and even
this estimate is modified by the readiness with which
either service can be secured. One who seeks the service
of an artist who stands alone among ten thousand
people, may be willing to give the services of a thousand
other men, which can be had for a trifle, because they
are everywhere abounding.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Essentials of value.</hi>&mdash;Experience seems, therefore,
to settle upon three conditions for value in any article
of wealth or any service rendered. First, the article or
service must have utility&mdash;that is, it must be useful in
satisfying somebody's wants, either present or future.
Second, those wants must be of such a nature that
effort on the part of some human being will be necessary
to gratify them. Nothing which can be had at all
<pb n='066'/><anchor id='Pg066'/>
times by mere desire of it can have value. Third, the
object must be of such a nature as to command other
services or exchange of other wealth. For this reason it
must be transferable from one owner to another.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Utility as related to value.</hi>&mdash;While utility is a
basis of all values, it is not the chief element in measuring
the value of wealth. The things of highest
utility, like air and water, have no value as long as
trifling exertion will bring them. Even land is without
appreciable value so long as any person can obtain it by
settling upon it.
</p>

<p>
In general, we measure utility by the relation
between the nature of any object and human nature as
expressed in wants. A bushel of wheat has utility
equal to the number of loaves of bread it will furnish to
hungry humanity. In this respect every bushel may
have the same utility as every other. This would be
true if every bushel of wheat was wanted by hungry
people able to exert themselves in securing it; but if
five bushels of wheat are sufficient for each human
being in a year's supply of bread, a distribution to all
the world of more than five bushels to each would make
some of the wheat useless. So if the world's product
of wheat more than supplies the world's want, the extra
amount will be without utility unless some means of
storing against future want is devised. In that case the
utility of the stored portion will be lessened by the
extra exertion required to store it until the need comes.
One may be glad to pay twenty-five cents for a good
dinner, but an equally good dinner offered immediately
afterwards will have no utility, unless he can save it for
<pb n='067'/><anchor id='Pg067'/>
supper. If the dinners offered are so many as to imply
that several will be useless, the value of each is likely to
be affected by this estimate of lost utility in some.
Dinners in that case are liable to be furnished for what
they are worth for cold suppers.
</p>

<p>
If any article of commerce, like wheat, has its
highest utility in one way of meeting wants, as in
bread, that utility will have a strong influence upon
value as long as the supply of wheat is not too great for
this want. If the supply of wheat should be so great
that only a small portion could be used for bread, other
utilities would be sought. It would be used for feeding
hens, and perhaps for cattle feed. If still the amount is
too great to be consumed, it might be used for starch.
In this case the least useful portion is likely to furnish
the estimate of value for the whole. Both the raiser of
wheat and the user will consider the lowest use as the
probable basis for sale.
</p>

<p>
Before the opening of the Erie canal a farmer in
northern Ohio drew a load of wheat twelve miles in
hope of a market. The dealer said: <q>It isn't worth
anything, since nobody has any use for it. If you had
a load of sand, I could pay you for that, to fill the mud-hole
in front of my store.</q> Since the utility of some
wheat was nothing, the value of all wheat tended to
nothing. On the other hand, if wheat is scarce in the
community, it will be used only to meet the wants of
the delicate or the fastidious, whose comfort and life
may depend upon it. In that case its general value
will be estimated by its higher utility, whatever other
use it is put to. That is called a final utility, which, in
<pb n='068'/><anchor id='Pg068'/>
any particular case, is the lowest use implied in consuming
the supply. And this final utility is the only
one influencing the estimate of value.
</p>

<p>
It is possible, therefore, that the total utility of
anything, like a paper of tacks, for instance, may be
greatly increased, since it has indefinitely more uses
than when tacks were first made. Yet the supply of
tacks is so enormous that to consume them we must use
them for trifling purposes; and therefore their value is
a trifle. When we have water to throw away, its value
is nothing. When water is limited to culinary uses, its
value is considerable. When water is sufficient only to
slake extreme thirst, its value is beyond price. Even
the prospect of a future supply diminishes the utility of
any commodity, since time is an important element in
satisfaction. Thus a store of potatoes in early spring,
however well preserved, has its final utility lowered,
and therefore its value lessened, by the prospect of new
potatoes.
</p>

<p>
On the other hand, the present value of a field of
grain or the young orchard is dependent upon its utility
in meeting a future want. Everything which enhances
prospective utility of any article enhances its value; and
everything which diminishes the chance of such utility,
like bad weather, insects or plant diseases, diminishes
the present value. In this way risk diminishes the
value of wealth subject to it and increases the value of
wealth which has passed by it.
</p>

<p>
In general, the usefulness of anything is no criterion
for measuring value, because other elements of value
are more important. Henry C. Carey says, <q>Utility is
<pb n='069'/><anchor id='Pg069'/>
the measure of man's power over nature; value is the
measure of nature's power over man.</q> This may be a
striking way of saying that great utility implies a discovery
of uses, while great value often indicates only
difficulty in securing what has great usefulness.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Exertion as related to value.</hi>&mdash;Since utility, however
essential to value, is not its measure, we are led to consider
whether the exertion required to obtain any article
desired may not measure its worth. This is certainly a
matter of prime consideration, and many have been led
to suppose the cost of production, by which is meant all
the exertion necessary to bring any commodity to its
final consumer, to be the sole and absolute measure of
value.
</p>

<p>
This supposition, if ever correct, is subject to great
modifications. None know better than farmers that a
bushel of wheat from one field may have cost twice as
much as a bushel from another field, without any
possible distinction in value. Every mechanic knows
that what he has accomplished with great exertion may
have been duplicated by some labor-saving device with
half the exertion, the two values being essentially equal.
Nothing is more common than to find articles in the
market sold without regard to cost because they are
superseded by more desirable articles. Indeed, the most
ardent defender of cost as the sole basis of value is
obliged to notice multitudes of exceptions to the rule.
Yet it must be granted that only those articles involving
effort in securing them have value at all, and in general
the amount of effort actually put forth has some relation
to our estimate of value.
</p>

<p>
In general, men do not exert themselves more than
<pb n='070'/><anchor id='Pg070'/>
necessary to meet wants, and in any exchange with
others estimate the value of what they have produced by
the exertion expended. Yet, as products of the same
kind exchange in the same market without regard to
their individual cost, it is evident that some other principle
must be discovered. Nevertheless, no farmer will
continue indefinitely the raising of a crop which brings
in the market less than a fair average return for his
labor in raising it. In a series of years he expects his
wheat to return a fair compensation for labor expended.
In the same way every manufacturer expects a full
return for all cost of all his efforts, and would not continue
his work from year to year without such expectation.
Moreover, when for any reason the market value
of anything is much above its cost, somebody is ready
to increase the supply of that particular article, and
more will add their efforts in the same direction until its
value approaches nearly the general cost of production
as compared with the cost of other products selling in
the same market.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Normal value.</hi>&mdash;In this way the cost of production is
said to fix the normal value of any article of commerce
capable of production in indefinite quantity and within
limited time. For this reason farmers are interested in
finding the average cost of production of wheat, corn,
etc., within a region supplying their market. They are
even interested in knowing the conditions for wheat
raising in India, South Africa and Australia, since the
cost of production there may influence the value of
wheat throughout the world. The normal value of products
capable of indefinite multiplication tends always
<pb n='071'/><anchor id='Pg071'/>
toward the value of the least costly. This is shown in
the effect of labor-saving machinery upon the value of
cloths and other goods. It is equally true in agriculture
that wheat raising upon cheap land with extensive use
of machinery and economical methods of culture and
harvesting brings down the normal value. So long as
more land can be applied to wheat raising with these
advantages, the less productive methods may be too
costly for the market.
</p>

<p>
On the other hand, if any production cannot be
largely extended so that the supply in market barely
meets the requirements of purchasers, the tendency of
normal values is toward the cost of the most costly part
of the product required to meet wants. This is because
the supply is kept up only by the exertion of the greater
amount of labor as well as the less. If farmers in
western prairie country can raise corn at an expense of
15 cents per bushel, as they can upon an average, so
long as that region can raise all the corn required no
less productive region can force the normal price above
what will keep western farmers raising corn. When the
western crop fails, the price is far above normal value,
and may even go above the cost of the most costly corn
in market, under a principle called the law of supply
and demand.
</p>

<p>
Since improvements in method so constantly lessen
the normal value of products, Mr. Carey made the effort
to measure value by <q>cost of reproduction,</q> meaning, I
suppose, that any article produced at any time and place
is likely to bring in any market a price equal to the cost
of similar articles produced under the most improved
<pb n='072'/><anchor id='Pg072'/>
methods anywhere used in the present. This, of course,
does not apply to articles not desired in the present,
because deteriorated or out of fashion or less useful
than some new device for a similar use, but only to
those articles of full utility in having all the qualities
needed to meet the desire of purchasers. Even a
diamond like the famous <q>Kohinoor</q> would have its
almost priceless value reduced to the cost of securing
similar jewels equally desirable if a process of crystallizing
carbon were suddenly discovered. It is easy to
see, then, that cost measures value only so far as it is
directly connected with the available supply in any
market. Under ordinary circumstances the supply cannot
be increased unless the cost is met, but the rule is
modified by any peculiarity of season, or conditions of
trade, or production by cheaper methods or cheaper
labor, or by the changing wants of a community. The
application of all these influences may be studied under
the so-called law of supply and demand.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Supply and demand; markets.</hi>&mdash;The law of supply
and demand is only a statement of the general fact that
market value tends to increase with increase of demand
and to decrease as the supply to meet the demand increases.
It must be understood that a market means a
particular spot where buyers and sellers of any article
of commerce meet at a particular time. The supply is
the amount offered for sale at a given price. The
demand is the amount buyers will purchase at the
same price.
</p>

<p>
Thus, if on a certain day sellers offer in Chicago
10,000 hogs, with a willingness to take $5 per cwt., they
<pb n='073'/><anchor id='Pg073'/>
represent the supply. If on the same day in the same
place buyers are willing to take 10,000 hogs at $5 per
cwt., $5 will be the market price, and the supply and
demand will be equal. If, however, only 5,000 hogs
would be bought at $5 per cwt., 5,000 hogs will be without
buyers, and their owners will seek, by lowering the
price, to find buyers at $4.50 per cwt., if necessary.
Since all the sellers will feel the same pressure, the
tendency of market value will immediately be downward.
Buyers willing to pay $5 per cwt., finding many
sellers, will expect a reduction in price, and the price
will certainly go down until the hogs purchased equal
the entire supply. And that will not be until the buyers
are stimulated by reduction of price, so that as
many hogs are wanted as there are for sale. If that
point is reached at a price of $4.50 per cwt., the market
value is found there. The limit of time within which
this reduction takes place will depend upon the ability
and willingness of sellers to wait. If the product
offered is perishable, or costly in keeping on the market,
the reduction will be speedy. Otherwise it may be held
indefinitely with the hope of compelling buyers to come
to the higher prices, in which case it is practically
taken out of the market. Only those commodities are
practically in the market which are held for sale at the
market price. Only those buyers practically enter
the market who are able and willing to give the
market price.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The higgling of the market.</hi>&mdash;The process of reaching
an agreement between buyers and sellers is called the
higgling of the market, and represents the conflict between
<pb n='074'/><anchor id='Pg074'/>
the wishes of sellers to get the most possible for
their products, and the wishes of buyers to get the most
possible for their money. In fact, both buyers and
sellers have the same motive: to make their own exertions
go as far as possible in supplying their own wants.
The fact that money enters into the transaction makes
no difference with the bargain. Two farmers trading
horses have exactly the same desire: to get the full worth
of the horse to be given. A genuine bargain usually
benefits both parties. Even in a horse trade each owner
expects to be benefited by the exchange; and only a
jockey seeks that benefit in taking advantage of his
neighbor's ignorance or inexperience.
</p>

<p>
So, in the general market, every seller gains what he
desires more than what he possesses, and every buyer
has exactly the same experience. Two friends may
exchange books if either would be benefited by the exchange.
In that case the one gaining the less valuable
book gains the satisfaction of giving to his friend.
Both are still profited, one by the larger value received,
and the other by the pleasure of giving. In such an
exchange no basis of value is reached, but in any ordinary
bargain the final adjustment will be as nearly as
possibly upon the test of value in the market. Between
one buyer and one seller, the bargain is likely to turn to
the advantage of the one who is quickest to discover the
weakness of the other. If two persons are discussing
the price of a house for which the seller wishes $1,000,
but will sell for even $600, and for which the buyer
hopes to give only $600, but will pay even $1,000, the
seller will gradually lower his price, and the buyer
<pb n='075'/><anchor id='Pg075'/>
gradually raise his offer until one or the other discovers
the working of his neighbor's mind. These are the
natural conditions for sharp bargaining.
</p>

<p>
In the larger market the interests of a multitude of
buyers and a multitude of sellers have weight, and no
shrewdness can prevent a settlement upon such a price
as comes nearest to satisfying all parties. The so-called
law of supply and demand is a brief statement of the
fact that sales cannot be made in open market above the
mark where buyers and sellers agree, and that mark is
essentially the price at which all who are willing to buy
at the price current are met by those who are willing to
sell at the same current price. With reference, then, to
all articles sold in open market, it is safe to say that the
only test of value is the price which the public is willing
to pay. So universal is the acceptance of this principle
in practical affairs that everybody estimates the
value of his property by the price at which it will sell.
Any appraiser or assessor who should adopt a different
principle would be considered wholly untrustworthy.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Freedom in markets.</hi>&mdash;In this higgling of the market
it is absolutely necessary that buyers and sellers have
essential freedom of choice and fairly equal information.
There may be conditions of law preventing free competition,
as under the regulation of prices attempted in
various countries prior to the present century. In England,
during nearly four centuries, limits of prices for
nearly every article of food and clothing were named by
law. Yet in every instance the conditions of the market
were stronger than the laws, and the restriction upon
free competition and free discussion of prices actually
<pb n='076'/><anchor id='Pg076'/>
destroyed the open market. The conditions of a bankrupt
sale at auction reduce the competition to a struggle
between buyers. In this case a very slight collusion between
the buyers may destroy the market. This is
frequently illustrated in the sale of real estate after
foreclosure of mortgages. The unnatural conditions of
auction at any price are so evident as to make common
the secret employment of sham bidders, shrewd enough
to push actual buyers as far as they will go without preventing
the sale. Somewhat similar conditions may
exist in a great cattle market, in which immense quantities
of cattle are delivered by owners, while the number
of buyers is few. The great packing houses have the
advantage of being almost the sole bidders for what
must be sold at their price. These conditions, however,
are not made by the packing houses, but by the large
supply subject to immediate sale. Such conditions are
much more noticeable in the market for ripe berries,
when a slight excess of supply makes these perishable
products of trifling value.
</p>

<p>
Conditions on the other extreme, from scarcity of
supply and anxiety of buyers, may also interfere with a
free market. Any scarcity in food products leads to an
anxiety on the part of consumers to buy and an equal
disposition on the part of owners to hold for higher
prices. In this case, while the law of supply and
demand is still active, the effects are quite out of the
ordinary course. Thus, for a long time it has been estimated
that a scarcity of one-tenth in the natural supply
of wheat raises the price three-tenths, scarcity of two-tenths
raises the price eight-tenths, scarcity of three-tenths
<pb n='077'/><anchor id='Pg077'/>
raises the price one and six-tenths, scarcity of
four-tenths raises the price two and eight-tenths, and
scarcity of one-half makes the price of the half-crop
four and a half times greater. A decrease in the supply
of less essential foods evidently cannot have equal effect.
Thus, a scarcity of sugar, causing increased price, will
directly reduce consumption of sugar, so that the limit
may be easily reached. The same conditions may exist
with reference to meats, since a high price diminishes
the demand from the disposition of people to eat less
meat. Indeed it has passed into almost a proverb that
dear bread makes cheap meat, for the reason that few
will diminish the supply of daily bread, but the mass
are willing to lessen the meat diet to save expense.
</p>

<p>
Similar conditions, affecting every market for any
commodity, may easily be discovered. Yet in spite of
all these extreme fluctuations, no better test of value
has been suggested than the market price in open, unrestrained
competition of buyers and sellers.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The market price.</hi>&mdash;In the discussion of value so
far, the term market price has been used because perfectly
familiar to everyone. It is necessary, however,
to call attention to the fact that price always indicates
an estimate of value in units of current money. If that
money itself has a fluctuating value, the same article
may have at different times different prices with the
same value, or the same price with different values.
Thus market prices in our country during and after the
civil war, in which a paper currency gave the unit of
prices, cannot safely be compared with each other, and
can far less be compared with prices upon a specie basis.
</p>

<pb n='078'/><anchor id='Pg078'/>

<p>
Even the reduction to a so-called gold basis may give
misleading ideas in regard to the market, since a new
element of speculation in gold enters into the calculation.
In all the accompanying illustrations of fluctuating
prices, this particular abnormal condition has
been carefully excluded. Any fluctuations in the value
of money metals, necessarily affecting the relation of
market price to market value, will be treated under
standards of price in <ref target='Chapter_X'>Chapter X</ref>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Prices of farm products; the crop year.</hi>&mdash;The actual
fluctuations of market prices under the law of supply
and demand can be most clearly seen by a careful study
in the same definite market during a period of years.
For illustration here the staple products of the farm
have been chosen, and the markets of Chicago and New
York, as most truly representative, have furnished the
facts for study. These facts are presented to the eye
directly by a series of charts, each of which has been
most carefully prepared from official records, and gives
within narrow limits a large range of investigation. In
every case involving annual crops, it seemed necessary
to rearrange statistics so as to cover the actual year
affected by the crop in question. September 1 was
chosen as the beginning of each year, because that date
is nearest the time when the new crop of the season
appears in market and directly affects the price of such
products in store. All calculations upon live stock have
been brought to the same basis, for the reason that the
supply of marketable stock is largely dependent upon
the supply of feed for stock. It seems very desirable
that all statistics in regard to markets and productive
<pb n='079'/><anchor id='Pg079'/>
industry should be brought to a uniform year. The
year given in these charts seemed best to suit the subjects
treated. It is possible, however, that for all data
convenience would settle upon July 1, the beginning of
the fiscal year in the United States, as the best for
beginning the universal statistical year. Each chart in
the series, of course, requires its particular explanation.
</p>

<p>
The fluctuations of supply and prices for series of
years are exhibited in the Charts <ref target='Chart_IV'>4</ref>,
<ref target='Chart_V'>5</ref>, <ref target='Chart_VI'>6</ref>,
<ref target='Chart_VIII'>8</ref>, <ref target='Chart_IX'>9</ref> and
<ref target='Chart_XII'>12</ref>,
and these are explained in detail at the close of the
chapter.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Fluctuations with season.</hi>&mdash;Every product of the
farm is known to have conditions favorable or unfavorable
from the mere changes of season affecting
the prospective supply. Conditions equally dependent
upon the seasons have something to do with demand.
The result of both combined is worthy of study by
farmers and dealers in farm produce, that all may get the
full benefit of such knowledge as the study affords. For
this purpose, charts showing the annual fluctuations of
staple products in the leading markets have been carefully
prepared. These may have a greater usefulness
than simply to illustrate the law of supply and demand,
since it is within the possibility of actual practice to in
some degree modify by provident foresight the extremes
of fluctuation. It is hoped that the suggestiveness of
these charts may help the most enterprising farmers to
adjust their practice to conditions of market.
</p>

<p>
Charts Nos. <ref target='Chart_VII'>7</ref>, <ref target='Chart_X'>10</ref>,
<ref target='Chart_XI'>11</ref> and <ref target='Chart_XIII'>13</ref>
illustrate the fluctuations as related to seasons.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Law of diminishing returns.</hi>&mdash;In considering the value
<pb n='080'/><anchor id='Pg080'/>
of farm products, it is necessary to notice a natural
tendency in all products of the earth toward greater cost
of effort in production. This is called the law of diminishing
returns, and is illustrated in every industry where
the accumulations of nature are depended upon for
making labor effective. Hunting, fishing and mining
afford familiar illustrations of more work of the same
kind for equal product.
</p>

<p>
Agriculture, however, gives the most extensive
available illustration of the facts grouped under this
law. In the first place, the farmer is subject to it by
mere location. The product of a field near his house
and barn costs less exertion than the product of a more
distant field. In the second place, he is likely to have
chosen for his first efforts in crop raising the land most
readily yielding its fertility in crops. If he extends his
operations to less productive soil, he must work more
for the same product. In the third place, if a certain
amount of work upon a certain field will give him
twenty bushels of wheat, he must give a good deal more
than twice as much work in the way of tillage and
manufactured fertilizer to make a crop of forty bushels.
The proof of this is clear in the disposition of farmers
to buy more land instead of to increase labor upon a
limited space possessed.
</p>

<p>
A specific statement of the law of diminishing
returns is that <emph>in the cultivation of land an increased
amount of effort under usual conditions fails to give a
correspondingly increased amount of produce</emph>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Exceptions to law of diminishing returns.</hi>&mdash;Exceptions
to this law are easy to find, as where the first selection
<pb n='081'/><anchor id='Pg081'/>
of land in a new country has had reference rather to
safety from wild beasts and savages or malarial diseases
than actual store of fertility. Another exception is
found in any new country, where imperfect adjustment
of labor to conditions of soil and climate are liable at
the outset to prevent the full use of natural powers of
the soil. So evident are these two exceptions in imperfectly
developed agriculture that some have disputed the
general fact, yet all must admit the certainty of diminished
returns from multiplication of the same kind of
efforts upon the same space, and general proof is
abundant in all long settled communities.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Effect of improved farming.</hi>&mdash;Counteracting this tendency
to diminishing returns, and in many instances
more than overcoming the difficulty, is a tendency toward
improved methods in farming by more perfect application
of labor to the soil, better developed crops, better
adaptation of live stock to culture, improved machinery
of every sort, and more extended range of operations in
farming, reducing the restraints of space by improved
transportation and more economical use of natural
fertilizers; in short, by any improvement through which
labor is made more directly effective in either quantity
or quality of agricultural products. The whole story of
the development of agriculture in all these ways furnishes
abundant illustration of this counteracting tendency.
In some regions it has more than counter-balanced
the tendency to diminishing returns. Various
staple products, like wheat, show in their diminishing
value the advance in methods of culture and adjustment
of labor to production.
</p>

<pb n='082'/><anchor id='Pg082'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Diminishing values.</hi>&mdash;The above is only a particular
illustration of the general tendency of all values to
diminish with every improvement in tools, machinery,
economy of materials and saving of time, as the world
gains wisdom in applying labor to the meeting of
material wants. With every discovery of more perfect
power or better use of natural forces, like electricity,
or easier ways of handling raw materials, as in developing
aluminum from crude clay, the value of the
product quickly diminishes.
</p>

<p>
A familiar illustration is found in the manufacture
of steel. The so-called Bessemer process, introduced
some thirty years ago, reduced the actual labor of
making steel from iron by more than one-half. Improved
furnaces and greatly enlarged operations have
reduced still further the labor involved, until now steel
often takes the place of iron, and the value of all such
products is greatly diminished. This is easily illustrated
by comparison of prices during a series of years,
as shown in chart No. <ref target='Chart_XIV'>14</ref>. That this reduction in price
is not the result of poorly paid labor, but of better
returns for labor expended, is evident to any one investigating
the tendency of wages or of living among wage-earners,
or of the general improvement in welfare of
communities where these labor-saving methods are
applied. Any hardship connected with these diminished
values falls chiefly upon the laborers who fail to adjust
their work to the improved method. But even they
gain for the diminished value of their product a larger
return on the whole through exchanges than the higher
values had brought them before.
</p>

<pb n='083'/><anchor id='Pg083'/>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <anchor id='Chart_IV'/>
  <figure url='images/chart-iv.png' rend='width: 80%'>
    <head>Chart IV. Comparison of the numbers of live
stock with increases in population and mileage of
railroad, 1860-1898.</head>
    <figDesc>Chart.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<pb n='084'/><anchor id='Pg084'/>

<p>
CHART NO. 4
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Numbers of live stock compared with increase of population and
mileage of railroad, 1860 to 1898, in the United States</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Explanation.</hi>&mdash;This chart exhibits to the eyes a comparative
increase of (1) population, (2) sheep, (3) hogs, (4) railroad mileage,
(5) beef cattle, (6) cows, (7) horses, (8) mules. The figures
followed in making this chart are taken from the best estimates
available, chiefly from the reports of the United States Department
of Agriculture. It shows that railroad mileage has increased
faster than the population, with some slight exceptions, and its
fluctuations mark quite distinctly the periods of financial speculation
and distress. The great fluctuations in the line of sheep raising
may be seen to have some correspondence with special tariff
legislation. The striking opposition of hog raising to sheep raising
is in accord with the universal experience that farmers easily turn
from one to the other. The rapid development immediately following
the civil war represents the restocking of farms and the
great expansion in farm industry so noticeable during that period.
The falling off in numbers of live stock during the last five years
is evidently a reaction from a very apparent over-production in
many directions during the previous ten years. The miles of railroad
are shown in thousands, the population and live stock in
millions.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <anchor id='Chart_V'/>
  <figure url='images/chart-v.png' rend='width: 80%'>
    <head>Chart V. Showing the acreage and yield of
Indian corn, wheat, and oats in the United States,
1862-1897. Pages 84-87.</head>
    <figDesc>Chart.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
CHART NO 5.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Acreage and yield of corn, wheat and oats, 1862 to 1897,
in the United States</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Description.</hi>&mdash;This chart is intended to show the fluctuations
from year to year in acres devoted to the three staple crops, together
with fluctuations in the corresponding years in yield of
each. Figures on the right show the number of millions of acres.
Figures on the left give millions of bushels. Continuous lines
show the acreage. Dotted lines show the yield. For convenience
of comparison, the line of increasing population is added. The
<pb n='086'/><anchor id='Pg086'/>
broken lines indicate what might have been the consumption of
each of these staples within our own country, if the people had
used throughout all the years as much of each as during the five
years of plenty from 1888 to 1892. Lines marked 1 tell the story
for corn; those marked 2 for wheat; and those marked 3 for
oats. In comparing the number of acres as given on the right
with the number of bushels as given on the left, it will be seen
that an average yield of corn is assumed to be 25 bushels per acre;
an average yield of wheat, 12 bushels; and an average yield of
oats, 28 bushels. The variations of the dotted lines above or
below the continuous line show whether the yield was greater or
less than these averages. The average assumed is evidently too
high for the oats.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Explanation.</hi>&mdash;Several important facts are shown. First,
there has evidently been a very great increase in the amount of
these staple crops in proportion to the population, with a recent
tendency toward reduction. Second, all three have exceeded the
needs for domestic consumption, and at the same time; while it
is evident that the rate of consumption in the early years could
not have been equal to that of recent years. This appears very
striking with reference to corn. An explanation of the increased
consumption of corn may be found in its larger use for fattening
pork and beef for export as well as for domestic consumption. It has
also entered quite largely, through improved manufacture of meals,
starches and syrups, into table use. The consumption of oats is
known to have greatly increased in its use for breakfast food.
The per capita consumption of wheat, while slightly increased in
some quarters through the cheapening of flour, has been diminished
by the larger use of corn and oats, and a far greater variety
of table food. Quite probably, however, the data as to corn raising
in the first few years of this period are not complete. The
years of the war made such statistics difficult to obtain. The difficulty
with reference to wheat raising was by no means as great,
since the wheat raising regions were more directly accessible.
Third, the seasons of abundance and those of poor crops can easily
be seen. It is evident that while the three crops are not always
poor together, they are too frequently so to balance each other in
<pb n='087'/><anchor id='Pg087'/>
meeting the risks of farmers. Fourth, it appears that the fluctuations
in yield are much greater in late years. This is accounted
for by the greatly increased proportion of lands cultivated upon
the plains of the western states and subject to greater fluctuations
of climate. It will be noticed that the acreage frequently falls off
in the years showing inferior yield. This shows that sowing and
planting have frequently been affected by unpropitious weather.
In fact, wheat fields have frequently been plowed up in the spring
and not counted in return of acreage. Reductions in the acreage
of wheat, however, appear frequently succeeding an immense
crop. This indicates the effect of low prices. Fifth, the bearing
of the total product upon the prices of these staples, while suggested
by the greatly increased amount, will be more clearly seen
by reference to Chart No. <ref target='Chart_VI'>6</ref>.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <anchor id='Chart_VI'/>
  <figure url='images/chart-vi.png' rend='width: 80%'>
    <head>Chart VI. Fluctuations in prices of wheat, Indian
corn and oats in New York, 1878-1898. Pages 87-91.</head>
    <figDesc>Chart.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
CHART NO. 6
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Fluctuation of prices of wheat, corn and oats in New York,
1878 to 1896.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Explanation.</hi>&mdash;This chart exhibits the average price of each
of these three staples in September, December and May of each
year. These months are chosen as giving without too great complication
the widest range with reference to a particular season.
September gives usually the price of the first of the new crop;
December shows usually the fullest marketing of crops; May
marks the month of largest speculation with reference to the
incoming crop. Corn is less distinctly affected by these peculiarities,
being subject to different conditions of the weather as
well as of marketing. But the correspondence in price to a certain
extent is easily perceived at a glance. The reason for this
correspondence is partly in the uniform effect of seasons, as
shown in Chart No. <ref target='Chart_V'>5</ref>, and partly in the fact that either of
the crops may supplement, in certain respects, a deficiency in either of
the others.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Wheat prices.</hi>&mdash;With reference to wheat, No. 1 in the chart,
further particulars as to prices are shown. The horizontal line in
<pb n='088'/><anchor id='Pg088'/>
each year gives the average price of the year; the diagonal line
gives the extremes of prices, highest and lowest, within the twelve
months from September to September again. The dot within the
circle gives the estimated average of farm prices on the first of
December, as given by the Department of Agriculture. The relation
of this, somewhat constant, to the New York price for
December, as given in the line directly above it, may be of interest
as showing the average actual expense of bringing wheat from all
over the United States to the New York market. Where the
difference of the two prices is more than an average, a speculative
turn in the market during December is indicated, the farm price
being fixed on the first day of December. The same fact of speculation
is also shown in years where the diagonal line is longer
than usual.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Special variations.</hi>&mdash;At the top of the chart is shown the
world's visible supply of wheat for each year, each horizontal
line indicating 500,000,000 bushels. The shaded portion gives the
amount exported by the United States and the part above the
shaded portion indicates the amount consumed or stored within the
country. Thus, in the year 1894-5 the total wheat crop of the
world was 2,672,000,000 bushels, of which the United States furnished
460,000,000, 144,000,000 of this amount being exported.
This year marked the lowest price of wheat in the record, together
with the largest crop in the world, though not in the United States.
A proportionally small amount exported explains the falling out of
the bottom of the wheat market. By reference to Chart No. <ref target='Chart_V'>5</ref>,
it will be seen that while the wheat crop of that year was considerably
above the average, the corn crop and oat crop were far
below the average. This explains the fact appearing in Chart No.
<ref target='Chart_VI'>6</ref>, that the price of wheat was lower than the price of corn
at the beginning of that year. It is probable that the use of wheat as a
substitute for corn in feeding stock actually saved the wheat from
a still lower price. The crop of 1891, the largest on record in the
United States, was accompanied by a moderate crop in the rest of
the world following two other moderate crops, indeed two short
crops, for the entire world. The large amount of wheat exported
explains the reason why the fall of prices was not greater in this
<pb n='090'/><anchor id='Pg090'/>
country. That the price did not fall faster was due to the fact,
remembered by many, that farmers, as well as speculators, held
to the crop with the expectation of larger demand from abroad.
When the crop of 1892 was felt to be still larger throughout the
world, the price fell rapidly, in spite of a smaller crop in the
United States. But when the prospect of an inferior crop in this
country for 1893 was felt in the spring, the price rose a trifle. Yet
as soon as the harvests of the world showed an enormous crop
outside the United States, the price dropped again. The crop of
1889 was a short one in the world, and apparently should have
affected the price of wheat in this country more than appears; but
when the total amount exported is seen to leave more than an
average crop in store, it is easy to see why the price in this country
did not rise. The explanation of this small exportation is in
the fact that the greater part of the shortage in yield was in countries
like Russia, from which no demand was felt, because the
people simply went without. The starvation of people in such
countries affected the demand for wheat in this country only so far
as our benevolence enlarged the market. The peculiar shape of
the line of wheat prices in 1889 without any correspondence in
prices of corn and oats is due to a speculative movement for
December wheat in Chicago. The attempted corner in wheat failed
suddenly, or it might have produced a line similar to that of 1897-8,
due to the famous long-continued Leiter corner.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Sources of information.</hi>&mdash;The object of this chart, taken
altogether, is to show the general law of market prices as governed by
supply and demand from the actual facts in the market for wheat.
The facts are taken from the best records available. The prices
are from the daily record of the Produce Exchange of New York.
The average price for the year and the fluctuations within the year
are given for the period from September 1, when the new crop
appears, to the August following, this being the period actually
corresponding in market with a year represented by the crop
figures. The estimate of the world's crop since 1885 is taken from
carefully prepared statistics in the United States Department of
Agriculture. The estimates prior to that date do not include the
entire world, because no statistics can be reached, but they do
<pb n='091'/><anchor id='Pg091'/>
include the most careful estimates of all countries whose product
entered into the world's market. No effort has been made, for
fear of complicating the chart, to show a similar correspondence
between supply and price in reference to corn and oats. The
tables following, however, give data for such comparison with
reference to this country alone. The export of corn and oats has
been too limited to play any great part in modifying prices.
</p>

<p>
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/table-104.png' rend='width: 80%'>
    <head>Table of production&mdash;wheat, corn, oats, 1878 to 1897.
          (Figures give millions of bushels)</head>
    <figDesc>Table.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
CHART NO. 7
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <anchor id='Chart_VII'/>
  <figure url='images/chart-vii.png' rend='width: 80%'>
    <head>Chart VII. Annual fluctuations in the price of wheat in New York,
1878-1897. Page 91.</head>
    <figDesc>Chart.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Annual fluctuations in the price of wheat. Highest year, lowest year,
and average of twenty years in New York, 1878 to 1897</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Explanation.</hi>&mdash;This chart is intended to show the tendencies
of the market for wheat from month to month throughout the
<pb n='093'/><anchor id='Pg093'/>
market year. In the center is given the averages of highest prices
and of lowest prices for each month in the New York Produce
Exchange during the period from September, 1878, to August, 1897,
inclusive. The horizontal lines between the averages of extremes
give the average price for the twenty years in the several months.
The diagonal lines give for each month the extreme fluctuation
during the twenty years. Above the lines of averages are given
the fluctuations by months in the year 1881-2, the year of highest
prices. The upper of the two continuous lines gives the top prices
of the month and the lower the bottom prices. The short horizontal
lines give the average price for each month; and the double
horizontal line across the chart represents the average price for
the year. Below, the fluctuations in wheat prices for 1894-5,
the year of lowest prices, are shown in the same way. At the top
of the chart are given, in millions of bushels, the receipts of wheat
in New York. The shaded double column in the center under
each month gives the average receipts for twenty years. To the
left, a single column shows the receipts for 1894-5. To the right,
a single column gives the receipts for 1881-2. Since the receipts
at New York are chiefly for export, the general correspondence
between receipts and prices is rather a result of a larger application
of supply and demand than an exposition of it. The chief use of
the chart is to show the fluctuation of prices under varying local
conditions. The figures on the left give the price per bushel, and
the figures on both left and right at the top indicate millions of
bushels.
</p>

<p>
CHART NO. 8
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <anchor id='Chart_VIII'/>
  <figure url='images/chart-viii.png' rend='width: 80%'>
    <head>Chart VIII. Prices of wheat in England, 1300-1890. Page 93.</head>
    <figDesc>Chart.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Prices of wheat in England for 600 years, 1300 to 1900</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Description.</hi>&mdash;This chart is to show at a glance the history of
the wheat market in England for the past six hundred years. The
record of the first four hundred years is taken from Rogers'
<q>Agriculture and Prices.</q> That for the eighteenth century, less
complete, is taken from Schoenhof's <q>History of Money and
Prices.</q> The nineteenth century record is from the report of the
statistician of the United States Department of Agriculture. All
<pb n='095'/><anchor id='Pg095'/>
are reduced with care to the basis of bushels and dollars and cents.
The figures on the right and left show the price per bushel in
United States money.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Explanation.</hi>&mdash;The heavy horizontal lines show the average
price during a period of ten years, though in a few instances the period
is longer. The diagonal lines show the extremes of fluctuation
during the period which they cover. During the first two hundred
and fifty years the coinage of England made the shilling in which
prices were reckoned a much larger unit, practically three times
as great as at present. The dots within circles indicate where
the horizontal lines might have been had the unit been always the
same. The same dots crossed cover a period of forty years in
which prices are somewhat uncertain, from transition between the
old standard and the new. The beginning of the nineteenth
century shows a remarkable condition of the wheat market, due
chiefly to the wars in which England was engaged, together with
issues of paper money affecting the standard of value. The record
is especially interesting from showing, first, the great fluctuations
natural from unequal seasons; second, the gradual increase in cost
of production under the law of diminishing returns; third, the
effects of changes in money legislation; fourth, the effect of extra
consumption in times of war; and fifth, the effects of the present
world-wide commerce in overcoming the law of diminishing
returns. A more complete record for the eighteenth century
would add to the interest, if not to the effectiveness of the chart.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Relation to wages.</hi>&mdash;For convenience of comparison, the
average price of wheat in France during periods of twenty-five years, as
given by Schoenhof, is added by dotted horizontal lines. The
double line across the chart indicates the range of average day's
wages of house mechanics in England, without indicating the
extreme of fluctuations. It seems evident that wages and subsistence
have something in common.
</p>

<p>
CHART NO. 9
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <anchor id='Chart_IX'/>
  <figure url='images/chart-ix.png' rend='width: 80%'>
    <head>Chart IX. Prices of hogs and hams in Chicago, 1884-1907. Page 95.</head>
    <figDesc>Chart.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Prices of live hogs and green hams in Chicago, 1884 to 1897</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>General description.</hi>&mdash;This chart exhibits the fluctuations in
prices of live hogs and green hams as shown by reports of the
<pb n='097'/><anchor id='Pg097'/>
Chicago Board of Trade from September, 1884, to August, 1897,
together with the visible supply of live hogs in the market from
month to month and for the entire year. The figures to right and
left give dollars per cwt. of live hogs, and per barrel of green hams.
The figures upon the upper third of the chart, right and left,
indicate the number of thousands of live hogs received in Chicago
during the successive months, as indicated by the dark lines. The
figures at the top of the chart under the date line give the number
of thousands of hogs received during the entire year. The year is
taken from September to August following, because the hog crop
is in large measure dependent upon the corn crop coming into use
in September.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Prices of live hogs.</hi>&mdash;No. 3, irregular line, gives the
fluctuation of top prices in every month from September, 1884, to August,
1897, for fat hogs. The total range is between $3.30 per cwt. in
September, 1896, and $8.80 in February, 1893. A somewhat striking
general correspondence is readily seen between this line of
prices and a line connecting the ends of the lines indicating the
monthly supply of live hogs at the top of the chart. The average
price of the year is easily seen to be low when the supply for the
year is high, and high when the supply is low, though in some
instances the effect of an increased supply is evidently anticipated
in the prices. Thus, an increase of 2,000,000 of hogs in 1889-90
over the supply in 1888-9 is anticipated by falling prices
during the early part of 1889. In a similar way, the effect of a
diminished supply in the summer of 1895 is not so marked upon
the prices as might have been the case had not the prospect been
strong for a large supply in the fall of 1895. Whatever influence
the local manipulation of the market may have had, it is perfectly
evident that conditions of supply and demand have overwhelming
influence.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Prices of green hams and mess pork.</hi>&mdash;No. 2, giving the range
of prices per barrel of green hams, shows fluctuations in some respects
corresponding to the prices of live hogs, but with variations
due in a measure, undoubtedly, to speculative interests in these
products. The range is from $6.60 in December, 1897, to $13.80
in May, 1893, corresponding with the range in the prices of live
<pb n='098'/><anchor id='Pg098'/>
hogs. Were there room upon the chart, it would be easy to show
an almost exactly corresponding fluctuation in the prices of mess
pork, which article is one affected largely by speculation, though
even that speculation is dependent upon prospective supply and
demand. The prices of mess pork at the New York Produce
Exchange during the same period ranged from $9 a barrel in
1885-6 to $15.80 and $15.60 in 1887-8, $14.20 in 1889-90, $11.75
in 1891, $14.20 in 1892, $22.60 in 1893, and gradually down to
$7.25 in 1896-7.
</p>

<p>
CHART NO. 10
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <anchor id='Chart_X'/>
  <figure url='images/chart-x.png' rend='width: 80%'>
    <head>Chart X. Prices of hogs and pork at
Chicago, 1892-3 and 1896-7, highest and lowest
year. Page 98.</head>
    <figDesc>Chart.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Prices of hogs and pork products at Chicago Board of Trade for
1892-3 and 1896-7, the highest year and the lowest year</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Annual fluctuation, 1892-3.</hi>&mdash;This chart presents a comparison
between the prices of live hogs, fresh hams and mess pork in the
year of highest range, with the prices of the same in the year of
lowest range. The figures on the left indicate the prices per cwt.
of live hogs and per bbl. of green hams and mess pork. No. 1
gives, in the dotted line above the date figures, the highest price
of mess pork in each month of the year, while the dotted line
below the date figures gives the lowest price for the corresponding
months. The range in any month is found in the distance
between the heavy dots on the line following the name of the
month. Thus the highest price in April, 1893, is $19.35, and
the lowest price in the same month, $15.50. The range throughout
the year is from $21.80 in May to $12 in August. No. 2 gives
the same facts with reference to the prices per barrel of green
hams; and No. 3 gives the corresponding facts as to prices of
live hogs.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Annual fluctuation, 1896-7.</hi>&mdash;Nos. 4, 5 and 6, marked by more
distinct lines, show the range of prices for these three related
articles of commerce for the year 1896-7. No. 4 gives the prices
of green hams, which in this year averaged higher than the
prices of mess pork, although the fluctuations of mess pork are
the greater. At the top of the chart are given in thousands the
number of live hogs received in Chicago during the two years.
</p>

<pb n='100'/><anchor id='Pg100'/>

<p>
On the right of each month are the numbers for 1892-3; on the
left the numbers for 1896-7. The lines connecting the shaded
portion show the fluctuations from month to month in the supply.
A general, though not a perfect, correspondence is perceptible.
</p>

<p>
CHART NO. 11
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <anchor id='Chart_XI'/>
  <figure url='images/chart-xi.png' rend='width: 80%'>
    <head>Chart XI. Annual fluctuations of prices of pork in
Chicago, 15 years. Page 100.</head>
    <figDesc>Chart.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Annual fluctuations in pork prices in Chicago&mdash;average
of fifteen years</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Average annual fluctuations.</hi>&mdash;This chart is intended to show
the annual range of prices as shown by reports of the Board of
Trade of Chicago, from September, 1883, to August, 1897. The
figures, right and left, give prices per cwt. of live hogs, and per
barrel of green hams and mess pork. The figures opposite the
shaded lines at the top indicate receipts of live hogs in thousands,
by the average in each month, for the fifteen years. The year is
taken from September to August following, for correspondence
with the crop year, as in previous charts.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Explanation.</hi>&mdash;No. 1 gives in the upper continuous line the
average of top prices for mess pork in successive months; and in
the lower line the average of bottom prices for the same months.
The long, diagonal lines show the extreme of fluctuations in each
month during the entire fifteen years. Thus the lowest price
reached during the month of April in any year was $8.05, while
the highest was $25.50. The lowest price in November of any
year was $6.40, while the highest price in the same month was
$15.50. No. 2 gives in the same way the average of top prices and
bottom prices during the fifteen years for green hams; and by its
diagonal lines, the extremes of fluctuation. No. 3 presents a corresponding
showing of average top and bottom prices of live hogs,
with extreme fluctuations. No. 4, at the top of the chart, gives the
average receipts of live hogs in Chicago during the several months
of the year, counted in thousands.
</p>

<p>
The supply of hogs.&mdash;The correspondence between the receipts
of live hogs and the average market price in each month
<pb n='103'/><anchor id='Pg103'/>
is worthy of study. Every farmer can see in what months of the
year the market is fullest. It is also evident that the fluctuations
in mess pork are much more extensive than in live hogs or fresh
products. This is doubtless due to the possibility of speculation
in a product which can be held for future market. Nevertheless,
it is quite evident that the prices of mess pork have some direct
connection with the supply available.
</p>

<p>
CHART NO. 12
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <anchor id='Chart_XII'/>
  <figure url='images/chart-xii.png' rend='width: 80%'>
    <head>Chart XII. Prices of cattle and beef in Chicago, 1884-1897. Page 103.</head>
    <figDesc>Chart.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Prices of cattle and mess beef in Chicago, 1884 to 1897</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Description.</hi>&mdash;This chart is planned to show the prices of
cattle and the prices of mess beef from month to month from
September, 1884, to August, 1897, together with the supply of
cattle received in Chicago in each month and for each year. The
figures right and left on the lower part, give in dollars the prices
per hundred pounds live weight, and per barrel of extra mess beef.
Above, to right and left, the figures indicate thousands of live
cattle received in Chicago.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Explanation.</hi>&mdash;No. 1 gives the lowest price in successive
months of lowest quality of beef steers. No. 2 gives the highest
price in successive months for stock cattle. No. 3 gives the
highest price in successive months for best quality of beef steers.
No. 4 shows the fluctuations in the highest price per barrel of
extra mess beef from month to month. No. 5 shows, by length
of lines in each month, the receipts of cattle in Chicago by thousands.
No. 6 gives the number of thousands of cattle received in
each year. As in previous charts, the year runs from September 1
to August of the year following, though the relation of the beef
market to the crops of the year is not so marked as that of the
pork market. Although the correspondence in prices between
these various parts of the cattle trade is not absolute, it is too
striking to be consistent with independence of causes. The price
of stock cattle has some elements not found in the price of beef
cattle; and the price of lowest quality of beeves for canning
purposes is naturally more uniform than any other prices.
</p>

<pb n='104'/><anchor id='Pg104'/>

<p>
CHART NO. 13
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <anchor id='Chart_XIII'/>
  <figure url='images/chart-xiii.png' rend='width: 80%'>
    <head>Chart XIII. Annual fluctuations in prices of cattle and beef in Chicago,
1883-1897. Page 104.</head>
    <figDesc>Chart.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Annual fluctuation in prices of cattle and beef, Chicago, 1883 to
1897</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Explanation.</hi>&mdash;This chart is intended to illustrate the changes
of prices in successive months upon the average of fifteen years,
as to stock cattle, beef steers, mess beef and beef hams. The
data are taken from the daily records of the Chicago Board of
Trade, from September, 1883, to August, 1897. The figures to
right and left indicate prices in dollars per hundred pounds live
weight, and per barrel of beef products. No. 1 indicates the range
of prices for beef hams. The upper line gives the average of
highest prices in each month for fifteen years. The lower line
gives the average of lowest prices for the same period. The
diagonal lines give the extremes of prices within the fifteen
years.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Mess beef and beef steers.</hi>&mdash;No. 3 gives the average of highest
and lowest prices for mess beef. Nos. 4 and 6 give respectively
the average of highest and lowest prices for beef steers. The diagonals
give the extremes for beef steers during the entire period.
No. 5 gives the average of highest prices for stock cattle.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Supply of cattle.</hi>&mdash;In the center, No. 2, is given the average
receipts of cattle in the Chicago market for each month. The
unshaded portion at the end of the lines, represents the average
reshipment of cattle. Thus September, on the average, brings
265,000 cattle to Chicago and reships 90,000; while October
brings nearly 283,000 and reships 82,000.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Peculiarities of mess beef market.</hi>&mdash;It will be noticed that
the prices of beef hams give an annual curve, entirely distinct from
either of the others. This indicates the fluctuation in demand
entirely out of keeping with the supply. It is quite possible that
the opening and closing of navigation upon the Great Lakes may
be an important influence. Certainly the change of the season
between cold and heat is an important element, since the lowest
month, and that of least fluctuation, is December. The month
of highest prices is August, and those of greatest fluctuation are
May, June and September. The curve of prices for mess beef has
a fair correspondence with the numbers of cattle slaughtered in
<pb n='106'/><anchor id='Pg106'/>
Chicago. The line indicating top prices of beef cattle has peculiarities
of its own, because it stands for quality as well as quantity,
representing the fancy lots, which are necessarily somewhat
more irregular than the average. The line of prices for stock
cattle is evidently affected by the variations in demand by feeders.
The line of lowest prices for beef cattle, No. 6, is quite probably
affected by quality as well as supply.
</p>

<p>
CHART NO. 14
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <anchor id='Chart_XIV'/>
  <figure url='images/chart-xiv.png' rend='width: 80%'>
    <head>Chart XIV. Wholesale prices of iron, kerosene, etc., New
York, 1867-1896. Page 106.</head>
    <figDesc>Chart.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Prices of iron, kerosene, etc., 1867 to 1896</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Description and Explanation.</hi>&mdash;This chart gives the prices from
year to year for steel rails, bar iron, pig iron and nails in the
New York market, each dot indicating the average for the year.
The average prices for the corresponding years for refined kerosene
are also shown. No. 1 gives prices per ton of steel rails, into
which enters all the influence of the improved methods of manufacture.
No. 2 represents the prices of bar iron per ton, less affected
by improvements but influenced by the substitution of steel.
No. 3 gives the prices of nails per thousand pounds. For comparison
with the other prices of iron, the prices of nails must be
doubled. All will realize the immense improvements made in the
manufacture of nails. No. 4 gives the prices per ton of pig iron.
It is evident that all these forms of iron and steel have stood in
the market under the same general influences, with slight modifications
from special characteristics of production or use. No. 5
gives the average price in each year for one hundred gallons of
refined kerosene oil. The price per gallon can be found by reading
the figures as cents instead of dollars. In the same way the
price of ten pounds of nails can be found. It should be said,
however, that all these prices are the wholesale prices, retail
prices being subject to local influences, sometimes even to custom,
which prevents their adhering closely to the prices in larger
markets.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Even monopoly affected.</hi>&mdash;These articles have been chosen as
illustrating the essential law of prices even under the advance of
<pb n='108'/><anchor id='Pg108'/>
combination of capital upon an enormous scale. The iron industries
and the Standard Oil Company come nearest, perhaps, to
fulfilling the conditions of monopoly found anywhere. Yet the
actual effect of improved methods in great combinations is seen to
have reached the mass of the people in spite of any tendency
to sustain prices by combination. A line, No. 6, indicating the
general trend of wages for farm hands in the North, is added to
more clearly indicate the distribution of welfare through such
improvements in method. For still other purposes, the fluctuating
price of silver bullion is shown in line No. 7.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='109'/><anchor id='Pg109'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<anchor id='Chapter_X'/>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter X. Exchange&mdash;Its Machinery.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Free communication.</hi>&mdash;From what has been said in
the preceding chapter as to the nature of value and
price, it will appear that the most fundamental condition
for ready exchange is perfectly free communication
between individuals as to wants and abilities to meet
wants. There is implied, also, an absolute protection of
property rights and of equity in dealing through the
laws and customs of the community. No one acquires
property for the purpose of exchange unless he can
foresee the possibility of carrying out the exchange at
any future time. He must also feel that he is protected
by surrounding circumstances from misinformation as to
values. In short, any community is ready for free
exchange among its members only when it maintains the
conditions for fair competition. To this fairness of
competition many things contribute, aside from the governmental
machinery. There can be little trade without
a common language, and the full advantages of common
speech are reached through every facility for ready communication
between all the individuals of the community.
An universal press, postal facilities, telegraph
and telephone systems have all grown up in meeting
this need.
</p>

<pb n='110'/><anchor id='Pg110'/>

<p>
The same is true of established market places, boards
of trade and produce exchanges. Not only does the
multitude of exchanges in one place lessen the cost of
such exchanges, but these make it possible for multitudes
to reach a fair understanding of what is wanted
and what is offered in any line of production. This
need accounts for the tendency so frequently noticed to
establish great centers of trade in particular commodities.
The world wants a fair understanding of
what the world contains, and these methods of bringing
together buyers and sellers are the natural outgrowth
of this need.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Full statistics.</hi>&mdash;The same end is served still more
fully by frequent publication of price-lists, and a daily
record of the transactions in any market gives information
which every dealer can use to advantage. Public
statistics, carefully and honestly prepared, serve both
buyers and sellers of any article of commerce. The
farmer needs as much as anybody the fullest information
as to what his fellow farmers have to sell, whether
they are immediate neighbors or in distant parts of the
world. The price of wheat on any farm ought, if perfect
understanding is reached, to conform to the general
law of supply and demand throughout the world, and
the yield of wheat in Russia, India and South America
affects the value of every bushel raised in our country.
</p>

<p>
Every advance in the perfection of statistics and the
rapidity of collection makes more certain the bargain of
every producer and consumer. People have sometimes
opposed the gathering of statistics for fear that large
dealers and speculators may take unfair advantage from
<pb n='111'/><anchor id='Pg111'/>
such information. But a careful consideration will
show that managing of the market depends chiefly upon
want of information on one side of the bargain. If
farmers were as thoroughly informed as to the crops of
the world as carefully collected statistics might make
them, no false rumors could mislead them in selling
their produce. The evident tendency toward more
stable markets, as shown by the records of the last
twenty years, is accounted for partially, at least, by the
more perfect information available. If farmers themselves
would take interest in furnishing accurate
estimates of the extent and condition of every product
held for sale, they would in the long run reap the
highest advantages of clearly understanding the supply
and demand in the markets of the world. This would
do more to destroy the demoralizing force of mere
speculation than any possible legal enactment.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Ready transportation.</hi>&mdash;An equally important part of
the machinery of exchange is easy transportation.
Every improvement in the transportation of persons or
products not only lessens the cost of the article when
delivered, but increases the actual stability of price and
range of the market.
</p>

<p>
The pioneer farmers of northern Ohio found absolutely
no market for their wheat until the opening of
the Erie canal. Farmers upon western prairies found
corn their cheapest fuel until railway transportation
brought coal mines and corn fields into closer relations.
The rural community which takes pains to
have good roads not only lessens the cost of hauling
grain to market by saving friction and toil, but actually
<pb n='112'/><anchor id='Pg112'/>
enlarges its market at home. Hard roads enable them
to do four times the work they can do on soft roads.
In the same way any improvement of railroads, construction
of pipe lines for gas and oil, or introduction
of pneumatic tubes, for mails and light packages in
cities, directly spreads the range of market for the products
of every individual laborer and makes more sure the
returns for any effort he may give in production. Perhaps
this is even more easily seen by considering how
the world's markets are opened by improvement in water
transportation. Water freight on a bushel of wheat
from Chicago to New York from 1865 to 1874 averaged
over twenty-two cents; from 1885 to 1894 it was less
than seven cents.
</p>

<p>
The universality of markets for all kinds of products
is clearly shown by realizing what we have within reach
of every country community today. Such easy transportation
adds to the productive abilities of every
person. Over ordinary roads the cost of transporting
wheat two hundred miles is equal to its value at the end
of the journey. Corn will usually pay its way not
more than half that distance. So in countries where
railroads do not exist the people consume only what
they themselves produce, or devote themselves to very
few products, and so occupy only a portion of their time.
In the best developed regions of our country, every
family can reach a steady supply of all kinds of goods,
and can know that every article produced has its proper
place in the market without waste. The cost of delivering
bread in Boston is greater than the cost of carrying
the flour in it two thousand miles. This ready transportation
<pb n='113'/><anchor id='Pg113'/>
leads to more complete and more definite
occupation and so to larger returns in the way of satisfaction
from all efforts. The extended market gives
added value to all permanent or fixed capital. It makes
both farms and homes more useful, if full advantage of
such improvements is taken. At the same time, values
of land tend toward an equality throughout the world.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Diminishing cost of transportation.</hi>&mdash;That the cost
of transportation keeps diminishing in spite of combinations
of capital to prevent it, and in spite of local
legislation restricting it, proves that the increasing perfection
of machinery and the accession of capital in
railroads and waterways are stronger than the purposes
of men. That freights are regulated by <q>what the
traffic will bear</q> is merely another way of saying that
transportation comes under the universal law of values&mdash;what
the service is worth in the market, or what
people are willing to give for it. According to good
authority, the net profit of carrying one ton of freight
one mile has fallen in twenty-five years from one cent
to less than one-ninth of a cent. The same principle
fixes a classification of freight according to service.
We can afford to pay more for carrying valuable
produce than for carrying cheaper products. It also
leads to special rates for developing traffic, as illustrated
in rates on baled alfalfa hay from western plains to
Chicago.
</p>

<p>
Wise managers, if not misled by speculation in
stocks, care more for enlarging traffic than for immediate
returns upon a smaller bulk, because the bulk
of profit is greater. A good illustration of development
<pb n='114'/><anchor id='Pg114'/>
of a special traffic is found in the milk trains running
two hundred or three hundred miles to supply the city
of New York. The railroads are compelled by the
needs of the traffic to carry the milk cheaply enough to
prevent its being made into butter and cheese. Laws
regulating this charge are effective, because such a
necessity exists in the nature of the case.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Weights and measures.</hi>&mdash;Another important growth
in the machinery of trade is found in standards of
quantity,&mdash;weights and measures of every kind. It is
scarcely possible to realize the uncertainty of exchange
without exact weights and measures. The story of the
Indian trader who bought furs by weight, putting his
hand upon the scales for one weight and his foot for its
double, illustrates how uncertain such judgments of
quantity may be without system. The present names
of weights and measures indicate their origin in similar
ways.
</p>

<p>
Measures have usually been connected with some
part of the body: as <q>finger,</q> used one way in measuring
the load of a gun and another on a stocking; <q>hand,</q>
still used in measuring the height of horses; <q>span,</q>
once considered sufficiently definite for any measurement;
<q>foot,</q> now made to conform to an accurate
system; and <q>pace,</q> still used in many communities.
Connected with the arm, are <q>cubit</q> and <q>yard.</q>
Many ladies still measure their dress goods by arm's
lengths. For small measures, <q>grain</q> and <q>barley-corn,</q>
still used as names, indicate dependence upon
average quantity in articles of general growth.
</p>

<p>
Today all civilized governments settle upon a definite
<pb n='115'/><anchor id='Pg115'/>
system of measures and weights, all accurately
connected with each other and with some precise dimension
in nature supposed to be invariable. Our common
yard is distinctly associated with a pendulum vibrating
seconds; and in the great decimal system, adopted by
most countries in Europe, and likely to be reached in all
countries, the whole is connected with a measured meridian
upon the earth's surface. Care is then taken to have
standard measures and weights prepared in such a way
as to be free from all effects of any change of temperature,
and legal enactments distinctly define each measure
and weight, actually punishing one for the crime of
using false weights or measures. Units of quantity
thus enter into all our calculations and form an essential
basis of all exchange. Cheating in measure and
weight grows less and less possible with this clear
understanding of exact units. The New York Legislature
has defined the size of fruit packages, and the
Massachusetts poultry raisers ask a law requiring eggs
to be sold by weight.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Metrical system.</hi>&mdash;If the whole world should unite
on a single decimal system of measures and weights,
like that now used in most of Europe, all would be
gainers from the reduction of misunderstandings and
miscalculations increasing the cost of exchange. The
difficulty of adopting a new system arises chiefly from
the absolute importance of any system and the unconscious
use of that to which people are already accustomed,
together with its application in a thousand
unthought of ways to every tool and every rule. That
the advantage of a uniform decimal system would more
<pb n='116'/><anchor id='Pg116'/>
than balance the difficulty of change, no student of the
subject now doubts. Some have estimated the saving
at nearly one-half of the present clerk hire. Our
government has already taken steps for such a change,
though years may be required to accomplish it.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Standards of quality.</hi>&mdash;The machinery of exchange
also involves standard units of quality, but these must
vary with every different kind of commodity. Custom
has given rise to all sorts of devices for expressing degrees
of fineness, strength and hardness, as well as more
delicate qualities of flavor and odor. Boards of Trade
often establish offices of inspection with brands upon
grains, flour, butter, pork, etc., and these become definite
parts of a contract which the government rightly
enforces. Private trade-marks and brands, if honestly
used, become a prominent element in exchange. These
are protected rightly by being filed with the government,
which secures to the originator his sole use of such a
proof of quality.
</p>

<p>
In some articles of trade, when a whole community
is interested, the government goes further and undertakes
inspection and branding by an official. This in
most states applies to kerosene oil, first for public
safety, but afterwards for protection of exchange. Laws
regulating the quality of fertilizers are based upon the
necessity of knowledge, that bargains may be fair; and
in many parts of our country now the branding of
ground feeds, with an analysis of their qualities, is
deemed an essential of safe bargaining. The extent to
which this effort to establish the certainty of qualities
may need to be carried can be estimated by the recent
<pb n='117'/><anchor id='Pg117'/>
agitation over adulterations of food products. All
believe that, as buyers, they have a right to know the
quality of what they buy. It is conceivable that
markets may some time establish a system of terms,
descriptive of qualities, almost as definite as weights
and measures. All this contributes to fair competition
in exchange.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Standards of value.</hi>&mdash;More important still in the
machinery of exchange is a standard unit of value.
We have seen that value in any article of commerce can
be fixed in terms of any other article, but prices remain
indefinite so long as there is want of universal appreciation
or appraisal in essentially the same terms and
ideas. The tendency toward definite prices in well
understood units of value is as clearly perceptible in the
progress of commerce as is the tendency toward definiteness
in weights and measures.
</p>

<p>
In early ages almost any article of common use, so
that its qualities might be generally understood, has
served as a standard of value, in terms of which all
wealth has been estimated. Communities engaged in
grazing counted all their wealth by cattle. Homer's
heroes wore armor valued in cattle, and early Roman
coins bore the images of cattle, while the very name of
Roman coins, <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>pecunia</foreign>,
is supposed to have been derived
from the name of the flock. Communities of fishermen
for a long period have estimated wealth in dried fish.
More mechanical peoples have used some article of
manufacture, like nails in some Scottish villages and
the country cloth of western Africa. Sometimes a
single prime article of export has served the purpose,
<pb n='118'/><anchor id='Pg118'/>
like tobacco in the colony of Virginia and dried hides
on the plains of South America. In most of pioneer
America the hunters' pelts have served the same purpose,
the average <q>coonskin</q> having a value which all
could understand. As communities became more
wealthy the display of wealth in ornaments made of
precious metals and in precious stones has led to the
use of these as standards of value. American Indians
used their wampum, and African tribes employed peculiar
shells. But as commerce increased, embracing
wider regions, gold and silver became the staple article
of value everywhere, since these, so easily tested for
purity, could have their value estimated definitely by
weight. Thus the standard unit of value has been
definitely connected with standard weights.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Coinage.</hi>&mdash;Gradually these weights, for greater ease
of transfer and for clearer understanding of values,
became the basis of coinage. The stamp of the coiner
became a certificate of quality and quantity, and finally,
as in the case of weights and measures, governments
assumed the whole responsibility for fixing the weight
and fineness of coins, and reduced all coinage to system,
that every citizen might know the value of the unit in
which he estimates any article of commerce.
</p>

<p>
The early coins were definite weights of gold, silver
or copper, and in many countries coins still bear the
names that indicate their original weight. Yet arbitrary
rulers have often sought to cheat their subjects
by issuing coins of lighter weight and baser metal.
The French livre, now the franc, is one seventy-second
of its original value. English coins were debased ten
<pb n='119'/><anchor id='Pg119'/>
times between the years 1299 and 1601 to exactly one-third
of their original value. The loss from such
debasement falls almost wholly upon the poor, whose
wages fail to buy the usual food and clothing. Henry
VIII reduced the coins of his realm again and again,
until it would have taken five years' revenue of Elizabeth's
reign to restore the currency. Elizabeth chose
to take the standards as she found them, but to establish
an absolute degree of purity and fix by law the
weight of each coin in the system. The standard of
purity since maintained in England is 22 carats, or
eleven-twelfths fine, and weights have been maintained
in spite of several efforts to reduce them. Other nations
have taken similar steps with varying standards of
purity: .835 in the Latin union, .9 in the United States,
and over .96 in most coinage of western Asia. In this
way the standard of value for every citizen of a country
is as clearly defined as the standard of weight, and
every transaction in trade, with every account of such
transaction, involves that unit.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>United States coinage.</hi>&mdash;A brief statement of the
system of coinage now established in the United States
may illustrate the definiteness of the standards of value.
The United States mint at Philadelphia and its
branches at New Orleans, Denver, San Francisco and
Carson have the sole authority for making coins. Any
effort at coinage by outside parties is criminal. The
mint receives the gold and silver by weight and assay of
purity, melts and refines and mixes with alloy, to bring
the mass to required fineness, nine-tenths pure, and
casts the metal into bars called bullion. These bars are
<pb n='120'/><anchor id='Pg120'/>
then most carefully assayed, and, if found of exact
standard purity, are rolled and drawn into plates the
thickness of the coins desired. From these plates disks
are punched by machinery, each disk being weighed,
and if found too light thrown aside, if too heavy
reduced by filing, until every disk represents exactly
the required weight of the coin desired. The disks
then pass through a milling machine which raises the
edges, and when cleaned by dilute acid and carefully
dried, are stamped by a steel die with some device covering
both surfaces completely. This effectually gives
the seal of the nation to the purity and weight of the
coin, and, since it covers the whole surface, prevents the
possibility of reducing that weight without marring
the coin.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>United States standards.</hi>&mdash;The system of coinage in
the United States since 1873 embraces standard coins
of gold, silver, nickel and copper, but gold alone actually
furnishes the standards of value, all other coins being
at present subsidiary. Gold is coined for individuals
free; that is, a certain weight of metal presented at the
mint is assayed, to determine the exact weight of pure
gold, and an equal weight of pure gold is returned to the
owner in coin. Sometimes a slight charge for the expense
of coinage is made and called seigniorage. At
present no such charge is made, for the reason that
when a nation bears the cost of coinage, foreign coins
are kept from circulation, and its own coins are current
everywhere.
</p>

<p>
The standard unit of value for the United States is
25.8 grains of gold nine-tenths fine, and this is called a
<pb n='121'/><anchor id='Pg121'/>
dollar, although no coin of this weight is at present
struck. In actual practice, the standard is shown in the
ten-dollar piece, or eagle, weighing 258 grains. The half
eagle (five dollars) and the quarter eagle (two dollars and
fifty cents) indicate upon their face their relation to
the principal coin. The double eagle, or twenty-dollar
piece, is coined for greater convenience. These coins
connect all the currency of the country directly with the
market value of commodities in the world, through gaining
their value directly from the market value of gold,
where gold is bought and sold. Thus gold furnishes
the standard of value with which all other values are
compared.
</p>

<p>
Silver coins of the United States are made from silver
purchased by the government. The dollar, adopted from
the Spanish rix-dollar, itself derived from the German
thaler, is by law a coin of 412- grains of silver nine-tenths
fine. This silver dollar has a story of its own,
which will be given later, and does not form a part of
the system of 1873. The half dollar, the quarter dollar,
and the dime, for fractional currency, are proportional
parts of 385.8 grains of silver nine-tenths fine. These
are about five per cent less in weight than the proportional
parts of the silver dollar. The original purpose
of this reduced weight was to prevent the consumption
of these coins in ordinary uses by making them worth
on the face a little more than their bullion value. These
fractional coins are legal tender in the courts to the
amount of five dollars. In nickel and copper coins no
effort has been made for many years to maintain a standard
of value, the amount of metal in any of them being
<pb n='122'/><anchor id='Pg122'/>
far less in value than their face. They are legal tender
only to the amount of twenty-five cents.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Fluctuation of standards.</hi>&mdash;In the study of the precious
metals as the standard of prices, it is necessary
to remember that the value of these metals, like that of
all products of labor, is subject to considerable fluctuations.
The very fact that gold and silver are durable
metals, not easily consumed or readily worn away, tends
to make the increased product in a series of years less
and less valuable. While the ordinary increase in product
may be provided for by increased demand through
extended exchange, the very improvements in the machinery
of exchange, especially the extension of general
credit, operate in the opposite direction.
</p>

<p>
It is certain that the value of gold and silver within
one hundred years after the discovery of America, when
European nations took possession of accumulations
among the inhabitants of Central and South America,
diminished to a little more than one-fourth of the
value previous to that discovery. It is estimated that
the value of gold since the discovery of 1849, in California,
followed by the opening of mines in Australia
and South Africa, has been reduced to little more than
three-fifths of its value in 1850. This estimate is based
upon careful comparisons between what an ounce of
gold in 1850 would buy of some hundred staple products,
and what the same ounce of gold will buy today
of the same hundred products. The test is a somewhat
uncertain one, from the fact that many products are much
more affected by improved methods of production than
others, and changes of habits and customs among the
<pb n='123'/><anchor id='Pg123'/>
people greatly affect the prices by changing demands.
The combination of a large number of products being
less likely to be affected than any one, the comparison
is worthy of some confidence. Nevertheless, it is possible
for two different persons, making different selections
for comparison, to arrive at very diverse results.
If the selected articles are those of ready manufacture
where improved methods have most largely entered, the
value of gold will seem to have increased; if, on the
other hand, the selected articles are raw materials, in
which the law of diminishing returns gives greater cost
of production, the value of gold will seem to have
diminished.
</p>

<p>
A test easily applied, though not absolutely correct,
is in the amount of labor of the most common sort
which an ounce of gold would pay for at the different
periods compared. Careful comparisons show that an
ounce of gold today buys more of all sorts of manufactured
articles and more of most articles of food, though
less of the better class of meats and less of labor, than
ever before. This fluctuation in the value of gold has
its chief importance in connection with long extended
credits, though its influence is felt in other directions
through a common system of accounts, in which the
standard unit of some system of coinage is the sole basis
of comparisons. If the standard unit is growing less
valuable, in a series of years the book-keeper will show
a constantly increasing total of wealth; if, on the other
hand, it is growing more valuable, the books will show
an apparent loss. Were a perfectly uniform standard
possible, all interests would be best provided for.
</p>

<pb n='124'/><anchor id='Pg124'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Ratio of silver to gold.</hi>&mdash;More directly important in
its effect upon exchanges is the unequal fluctuation of
gold and silver when both are made the standard of
value. That silver and gold are from independent
sources, subject to variations of their own in product
and processes of extraction, makes it impossible that
they should sustain always the same ratio to each other
in value.
</p>

<p>
A careful study of the subject by Professor Rogers
shows that early in the thirteenth century one pound of
gold was worth ten pounds of silver, at the close of
that century would buy twelve and one-half pounds of
silver, and in the middle of the fourteenth century bought
thirteen and three-fourths pounds; but in the fifteenth
and sixteenth centuries, after the new world was
pillaged, one pound of gold bought from ten and one-half
to twelve pounds of silver. In the seventeenth
century fifteen pounds of silver went for one pound of
gold, and in the eighteenth, fifteen and one-half pounds.
Early in the nineteenth century the ratio was fixed in
this country at sixteen of silver to one of gold, and
that estimate was assumed to be essentially correct as
late as 1877, when a pound of gold would exchange in
the market for three and one-half pounds of platinum,
seven pounds of aluminum, sixteen pounds of silver,
seventy-one pounds of nickel, 942 pounds of tin, 1,696
pounds of copper. Twenty years have produced great
changes in both the total annual products and the
relative cost of mining. The estimate of 1877 would
now be incorrect for any of the metals named. A
pound of gold now buys 1,540 pounds of aluminum, the
<pb n='125'/><anchor id='Pg125'/>
change being due to an invention for reducing aluminum
ore. It now takes about thirty-seven pounds of silver
to pay for one pound of gold, a change in part due to
new systems of coinage in which silver plays a subordinate
part, but chiefly due to the greatly increased
product of rich mines and greatly improved methods of
reducing ores.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The cheaper money drives out the good money.</hi>&mdash;In any
system of coinage, employing both silver and gold as
standards, it is found by actual experience, repeated
hundreds of times, that a change in the ratio between
the two metals in open market always leads to hoarding
for speculative purposes of the most costly metal of
the two.
</p>

<p>
Thus, in our country previous to 1873, when silver
was worth more than one-sixteenth of its weight in
gold, uncoined silver was necessarily worth more than
coined silver for some purposes, and the coins already
struck were worth more in the manufacture of spoons
and plate than to circulate as coins. Prior to 1853,
when the half dollars, quarter dollars and dimes were
coined at the ratio of sixteen to one, such coins could
not be kept in circulation, for the reason that they were
worth more than their face value. The law of 1853
reduced the weight of these coins so that their market
value as silver was sure to remain a trifle less than their
face value. The result was no further melting up of
these small coins for use in the arts or for bullion. This
fact is only one illustration of what is called Gresham's
law, formulated in the time of England's base coinage
during the sixteenth century, but noticed centuries
<pb n='126'/><anchor id='Pg126'/>
earlier, that <emph>cheap money always drives out a more costly
money</emph>. The principle is as constant as human nature,
that nobody will give a greater value when a less value
will serve the same purpose. For this reason, no
country in recent times has been able to keep both gold
and silver as the actual standards of value at the same
time. Either the ratio must be changed with every
fluctuation of either metal, or one of the metals must be
undervalued in the system of coinage, as has been done
in England for the greater part of this century; or else
the total coins of the cheaper metal must be limited in
amount, as has been done by the Latin Union in Europe
during the last twenty-five years. In either case the
tendency is toward a single standard. The commercial
world prefers a stable, well understood unit to a changeable
one. And while the fluctuations of gold alone
affect somewhat the stability of prices, these are thought
of less importance than the necessary legal adjustments
for new systems of coinage.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Monometalism and bimetalism.</hi>&mdash;The discussion has
led to two opposing views, distinguished as monometalism
and bimetalism. The monometalist holds
that since one metal only can, under ordinary circumstances,
set the standard of price, it is wise to choose
the one subject to the least fluctuation for the universal
standard. The bimetalist holds that a nation, or at any
rate a group of nations, can fix by agreement the price
of gold and silver in terms of each other, when used
as money. Since the use of these metals as money
makes the chief demand for them, it is thought possible
to make this legal ratio hold upon the total product of
<pb n='127'/><anchor id='Pg127'/>
both gold and silver. If, then, in any country the supply
of gold should be out of due proportion with silver, its
overvaluation will at once attract gold from other
countries until it becomes no more profitable there than
elsewhere. The result is assumed to be a somewhat
ready equalization of values for the territory establishing
the standard, so that the actual fluctuations of the
standard unit will follow the line of lowest prices for
either of the metals. The monometalist feels certain
that the actual withdrawal from circulation, and so from
use as money, of the higher priced metal causes greater
hardship and probably greater fluctuations in values of
other commodities than any fluctuation of a single
standard can produce.
</p>

<p>
It is very certain that the commercial world
recognizes the tendency toward a single standard, and
that the coinage systems of all civilized countries are
practically, if not in definite form, based upon a single
standard. The countries of wide commerce and extensive
credit are using the gold standard. The less
developed countries adhere to the silver standard.
Many which nominally sustain both have, by some
legal restriction in the coinage of silver, become practical
supporters of the gold standard. Few, if any,
thorough students of the subject believe it possible by
statute in the present conditions of mining and commerce
to bring the commercial world anywhere back to
the ratio of sixteen to one, established in the United
States in 1834. Statute law might declare a sheep to be
equal to a horse, but no power on earth could make it
pull as much. So even agreement among nations, by
<pb n='128'/><anchor id='Pg128'/>
legal enactments, cannot enforce an unnatural relation
between two products.
</p>

<p>
NATIONAL STANDARDS OF VALUE, 1899
</p>

<table rend="latexcolumns: 'p{1.6cm} p{1.6cm} p{1.6cm} p{1.6cm}'
             tblcolumns: 'lw(15) lw(15) lw(15) lw(15)'">
<row><cell><hi rend='italic'>Gold</hi></cell>
     <cell><hi rend='italic'>Gold, with silver limited</hi></cell>
     <cell><hi rend='italic'>Gold or silver</hi></cell>
     <cell><hi rend='italic'>Silver</hi></cell></row>
<row><cell>Great Britain, Germany, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Austro-Hungary,
           Roumania, Turkey, Portugal, Brazil, Canada, Newfoundland, Egypt,
           Russia, Chile.</cell>
     <cell>United States, France, Belgium, Italy, Switzerland, Greece, India.</cell>
     <cell>Haiti, Uruguay, Argentine Republic, Venezuela, Spain, Servia, Bulgaria,
           Netherlands, Algeria, Tunis, Japan, Java, etc., Philippine Islands,
           Hawaii.</cell>
     <cell>Mexico, Central America, Columbia, Bolivia, Peru, Equador, China,
           Hong Kong and Straits, Cochin China.</cell></row>
</table>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Actual bimetalism.</hi>&mdash;It is necessary to caution
against supposing that the use of both gold and silver
as currency in any country implies true bimetalism, nor
is it at all certain that the making of either gold or
silver legal tender at option touches the question of
bimetalism. Only the issue by free coinage at the will
of the owner of both metals shows a distinct attempt to
maintain bimetalism. The actual maintenance of both
standards has always been, and always will be, by
alternation, when the ratio of the two metals as to
value is established at very nearly the market value of
the two metals in bullion.
</p>

<pb n='129'/><anchor id='Pg129'/>

<p>
Popular demand for a return to the old ratio in the
United States is founded in part upon misconception of
commercial principles and largely upon a misunderstanding
of current events during a financial crisis.
The supposed dangers from a single standard of value
are largely exaggerated from confusion of standards
with currency in exchange. It is quite conceivable
that gold may still serve as a standard unit of value,
while 90 per cent of exchanges have no other use
for gold beyond its furnishing terms of comparison.
We must measure value by value, and the unit of value
must be true to its name, just as we measure length by
something long. But the number of yardsticks in
actual use in a store may have no constant ratio to the
number of yards of cloth sold by that measure. The
folding of calico in yard folds relieves the yardstick,
but does not change the nature of the yard. So gold,
or silver, is relieved of many functions in exchange
through banking systems without materially affecting
its use as a standard unit.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The multiple standard.</hi>&mdash;It is proper to mention in
connection with units of value a theoretical device for
overcoming the necessary fluctuation in all articles of
value. This is sometimes called the multiple standard.
The plan, in brief, is to appoint a committee of experts,
whose record of current prices, in some general market,
for a hundred or more staple articles of commerce, shall
be compared from week to week, or day to day, in such
a way as to indicate how far above or below the average
the price of any article may be. If, then, gold is made a
legal tender, a comparison of its price with the average
<pb n='130'/><anchor id='Pg130'/>
of all prices will show how much weight of gold must
be given on any day to actually return a value exactly
equivalent to what was borrowed sixty days or a year
previous, when the ratio of gold to average prices was
different. In this way it is supposed that natural fluctuations
in gold, silver or any other commodity made
legal tender for debt can be fully provided for without
loss to either debtor or creditor.
</p>

<p>
The objections to this ideal standard are the practical
difficulty of settling, first, the wide range of commodities
to serve as the basis; second, the importance
to be given each in adjusting the standard; and third,
the nature of the commission under which the work
should be done. In the history of the world, custom
has preceded law in devising for welfare; in
this, law without experience will have to precede custom.
The difficulty which most men would experience
in understanding and trusting such a system puts off
indefinitely the possibility of a general adoption.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The currency.</hi>&mdash;The last essential in perfect freedom
of exchange is a satisfactory means of transferring completely
and quickly all property right in any article of
trade. Exchange of commodity for commodity or service
for service is possible to a very limited extent, since
the man who wants my horse may have nothing which I
want in return, or if he has, the values may be unequal,
and one or the other must remain in debt, which means
that one of the articles belongs in part to both. In
some new countries exchanges are confined to this slow
and uncertain method of barter, where nobody can buy
until he finds a neighbor wanting just what he himself
<pb n='131'/><anchor id='Pg131'/>
has to sell. Traders in such countries contrive to accumulate
a variety of things needed by all sorts of people,
that they may be ready with some kind of exchange to
meet particular wants. No community, however, begins
to reap the clear advantages of exchange until some
universally acceptable medium of exchange is discovered
and accepted. The process of developing this medium
is essentially the same as that described in establishing
a standard of value; and so the word money naturally
represents both the standard of value and the common
currency of trade. It is easy, however, to see by further
examination that the two functions of money are
quite easily separable, and that, while it is difficult to
substitute for the standard of value, a variety of substitutes
can serve as currency.
</p>

<p>
In speaking of coinage hitherto, the standard of
value has been assumed to be the most important, but
in fact a large proportion of our coin serves simply as
currency without materially affecting the standard of
value. This is true of all the fractional coins, which
are purposely over-valued, and equally true of the silver
dollar under existing circumstances. In fact, the primary
use of coin was simply for the purpose of transferring
property. In the words of Aristotle, 350 B. C.,
<q>Men invented among themselves, by way of exchange,
something which they should mutually give and take,
and which, being really valuable in itself, might easily be
passed from hand to hand for purposes of daily life.</q>
This coined money supplies the needed means of exchange
most readily because it carries its value with it.
In all civilized communities, and in many only partially
<pb n='132'/><anchor id='Pg132'/>
civilized, it is readily exchangeable for any article of
commerce. It is also valued in proportion to its weight,
so that any bulk in gold or in silver may be easily
divided by exchange for smaller coins. With a little
painstaking the coins are made identical in value, so that
every trader knows what he gives and receives. They
are exceedingly durable, resisting almost all the forces of
nature with little loss. For this reason they are likely
to have an almost universal value, that is to be wanted
by everybody, in any place, at any time, and under any
circumstances. These facts are proved by the tendency
to hoard such coins whenever individuals have a surplus
of wealth beyond present wants, or whenever there is risk
in using wealth as capital because of distrust of government,
of individuals or of future enterprise. A buried
treasure is almost sure to be in the form of coins.
</p>

<p>
Under a system of coinage, inequalities in exchange
are easily adjusted, like <q>the boot</q> in a horse trade,
or the balance between produce carried to the store and
the articles carried away. Most of all, coin is used
where for any reason there is distrust of the future.
Coin, or its equivalent in bullion, is needed in all transactions
where credit is wanting. This appears prominent
in all lawless communities with a fluctuating population,
and may be found in ignorant communities where
methods of credit are not established. It is often essential
in the settlement of claims between hostile countries,
and is the final means of adjusting balances in all
foreign trade. Occasionally this need appears in a universal
panic, where each man takes his fellow by the
throat, saying, <q>Pay me that thou owest.</q>
</p>

<pb n='133'/><anchor id='Pg133'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Coin a part of a country's capital.</hi>&mdash;The coined
money of a country thus becomes wealth in store for
constant use as a machine of exchange. Its operation
is effective when it keeps in constant motion, being
itself consumed very slowly in the wear and tear of motion.
It is sometimes compared to an endless screw,
transmitting motion to everything else with which it
comes in contact. Like other machines, it may be
either too abundant or too scarce for the best advantage
of the country. In either case there is waste. When
the coin is idle it is unproductive, but suffers less
waste from deterioration than almost any other kind of
machine. In case of scarcity the cost of its use is increased
under the general law of supply and demand,
exactly as the cost of other machinery in use is advanced
when many desire to use it. This machine is a prominent
part of the capital of a country, greater in some
countries than in others. In France the value of coin
is estimated to be 3 per cent of the value of all real
estate, including buildings. The use of such a machine
makes a material part of the annual cost of exchanges.
The coin of England, where interest is comparatively
low, costs for its use in interest, wear and tear, and re-coinage
more than $20,000,000 annually.
</p>

<p>
An additional cost to individuals is in the extra risk
of carrying such wealth, as shown in express charges
and special insurance, and still greater expense for safe
keeping, and a considerable use of time in counting.
These facts have led to many devices for lessening the
need of keeping wealth in this form.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Credit by accounts.</hi>&mdash;The most obvious method of
<pb n='134'/><anchor id='Pg134'/>
avoiding the use of coin in exchanges is a current account
between individuals having many transactions in
trade. A farmer carries his butter, eggs, fruits, grains
and live stock, perhaps, to a single dealer in all these
articles, and takes in return articles of household use or
for any necessity as he requires them, from a spool of
thread to a harvester. If both keep accurate accounts,
a settlement once in six months satisfies most conveniently
all the requirements of perfect trade. Indeed the
settlement is needed only that the accounts may be verified.
Except for the dangers of waste in unlimited
credit and carelessness in expenditure where future
wealth is drawn upon, this method of exchange is
simple and inexpensive. In the nature of the case, however,
it must be limited, for safety, to trade between
people having confidence in each other's honesty of purpose
and ability to keep correct accounts. It also requires
a mutual expectation of ability on the part of
either to meet indebtedness at any future time of
settlement.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Credit by due-bills.</hi>&mdash;An extension of this credit in
well established countries, so as to take in other persons
than the two involved in book account, is found in due-bills,
notes of hand payable on demand, or more formal
securities, any of which may require a final decision in
court. These pass from hand to hand, often in connection
with coin, and under ordinary circumstances serve
their purpose cheaply. In some countries a note of
hand, with endorsement of each user, may make exchanges
until it is covered with endorsements. The
danger of waste is considerable from the impossibility of
<pb n='135'/><anchor id='Pg135'/>
knowing the financial standing and honesty of the
various endorsers, and the system is limited, of course,
to the range of confidence in such trustworthiness. So
easy is it to extend this credit of individuals beyond the
range of safety that most governments have found it
necessary to protect their citizens against its dangers by
limiting or prohibiting its use as currency.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Credit currency.</hi>&mdash;So convenient, however, and so
economical is the use of credit, that all well established
nations have developed systems for the issue of a credit
currency founded upon the stability of strong corporations
or upon the national credit. Nations themselves
have often issued bills of credit in the form of notes, or
promises to pay at the national treasury. If these are
payable on demand in the coin of the realm, they are
said to be redeemable. If the time of payment is uncertain,
or indefinitely postponed, they are said to be irredeemable.
Thus we have the many forms of paper
money so familiar to everybody and the various practices
and speculative theories regarding it, which make a large
part of the discussion of financial questions throughout
the world.
</p>

<p>
No one doubts the worthlessness of currency in any
form of note, from individual or firm, which cannot be
paid when presented. The notes of the government,
so long as that government is considered stable, may
circulate readily, and even after doubts exist as to the
final ability of the government to redeem, they still circulate,
perhaps with greater readiness, in the feeling that
hoarding is utter loss and the stopping of trade in the
ordinary perishable products of industry will be an enormous
<pb n='136'/><anchor id='Pg136'/>
disaster. This feeling often leads to the use of a
currency without value, like the token money used for
change in the absence of legal coins. Though nobody
is bound to redeem these tokens, everybody takes the
risk of loss as less disastrous than no exchange. Paper
money issued by corporations is universally considered
dangerous to the interests of communities, unless very
carefully restricted within distinct and clearly understood
limits. The discussion of such issues will be
given in another chapter devoted to banking. The issue
of paper money by governments has been a frequent
device for enforcing contributions of citizens to extraordinary
expenses in war or other disaster. A history of
such issues cannot be given within the limits of this
book, but is well worth the study of those who seek an
understanding of the powers and limitations of government
under natural laws, in making a satisfactory currency.
A government's stamp upon the piece of paper
is so far good, and only so far, as it secures to the
receiver of the paper an equivalent value to what he
gave for it. If the government itself is unable to give
that value, it can never insure the ability or the willingness
on the part of any individual to give such value.
While millions of dollars in such form may serve as
currency without any deterioration, as at the present
time, when government promises in all the various forms
amount to nearly $1,000,000,000, should any of these,
on any day, be refused payment for want of means in
government possession, every individual in the land
would feel that the value of his possessions in the shape
of such notes was made just so far doubtful as the
<pb n='137'/><anchor id='Pg137'/>
chances of redemption are postponed. All issues of
such notes at once become certificates of debt rather
than credit, and lose, to greater or less extent, their exchangeable
value.
</p>

<p>
In the extraordinary issue of <q>greenbacks</q> during
the civil war, the purchasing power of a paper dollar
was reduced to less than half, and gradually appreciated
in value as the expectation of early redemption increased.
The effect of such issues upon government revenues will
be treated in its proper connection. As currency, it certainly
robs each creditor and holder while depreciating,
and as surely robs each debtor while appreciating. As
wage earners are universally creditors, according to prevailing
customs, they suffer most in a depreciation of
money values: i. e., they work for dollars at one value and
a week or a month later receive them to expend at a less
value. Speculative debtors, on the other hand, always
thrive on depreciating currency, paying their debts in
what costs less exertion. Under appreciating currency,
the creditors gain, be they bankers or workmen.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Banking.</hi>&mdash;The peculiar convenience for saving found
by experience in the use of each of these methods of
settlement in exchange leads to a natural commingling
of all. Coins serve some purposes best, and accounts
have a limited range; notes of hand are often desirable,
and paper money, if safe, is universally convenient.
This natural combination has led to a more systematic
arrangement for handling various kinds of currency,
called banking. The most obvious addition to the
machinery of exchange in the system of banking is
the possibility of immediate transfer of property right
<pb n='138'/><anchor id='Pg138'/>
in a bank deposit by check and account, or by a draft in
account between banks, or by bills of exchange in more
distant transactions. The bank deposit is made up of
individual wealth, or titles to wealth, supposed to be
immediately available for use in exchange. It may consist
of all the kinds of currency described or conceivable.
Checks are orders upon these individual accounts or
deposits, and by their means exchanges are made with
great ease and little risk between individuals in the
same neighborhood or even in distant cities or distant
countries. The cost of storing, handling or transferring
any form of currency is reduced to a minimum.
So far-reaching is this comparatively modern machine
of exchange that it is properly assumed to be the means
of settling 90 per cent of all exchanges, domestic and
foreign, with almost no use of money in any of its
numerous forms. Its importance as a machine of commerce
entitles banking to a more distinct consideration,
and chapter <ref target='Chapter_XI'>XI</ref> will be devoted to the subject.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Deferred settlement.</hi>&mdash;In certain stages of civilization
exchanges involve, not simply present wealth, but prospective
accumulation. A farmer may purchase his farm
upon the assurance of crops and stock to be raised in a
series of years. In this exchange final settlement is
deferred by notes payable at definite future dates, the
promise to pay being secured by a deed in trust, a
mortgage deed or individual endorsement. If many
individuals are united, a purchase may be made by
means of issuing more formal notes called bonds, the
property of the company being pledged for the payment
of the bonds when due. Sometimes such purchases are
<pb n='139'/><anchor id='Pg139'/>
made by the issue of stock, establishing the right of the
seller to a certain undivided share in the wealth controlled
by the company. In this case the time of final
settlement is indefinitely postponed, to be fixed by
limits of the charter or by a vote of the stock-holders.
All these certificates of indebtedness serve to a limited
extent in exchange of property. So far as they enter
into commerce, after the first transaction, they are
simply articles of purchase and sale, having a more or
less established market value. Since they usually represent
an accumulating interest or a provisional dividend,
the market value is constantly fluctuating, and they can
therefore serve almost no purpose of currency.
</p>

<p>
The ease with which such notes, bonds and stock
can be made the basis of a single purchase in establishing
some enterprise gives to them an indefinite influence
in trade, sometimes immensely extending the apparent
purchasing power of a community. The advantages
and disadvantages of such deferred settlement are so
varied and important as to make it worth while to treat
the subject more extensively than is proper in this
analysis, and such treatment will be found in Chapter
<ref target='Chapter_XII'>XII</ref>.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='140'/><anchor id='Pg140'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<anchor id='Chapter_XI'/>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XI. Banks And Banking.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Origin of banks.</hi>&mdash;Attention has been called to the
banks of the country as a most important part of
the machinery of exchange. It is proper to describe
more fully the nature of the machine and its operations.
A clear understanding of the character and process of
banking on the part of all the people both extends its
influence and diminishes its dangers. Banking, like
everything else in civilization, has had a natural growth.
The different steps in its growth have been devised for
the sake of meeting the needs of a growing commerce,
and banking can exist only where commercial transactions
are frequent and constant.
</p>

<p>
The word bank, distinctly related to the English
word bench, is supposed to have been adopted from the
fact that early Jewish dealers in money sat by a bench
in the streets of Italian cities. The commercial city of
Venice is supposed to have been the seat of the first
organization distinctly named a bank. This was a
corporation of money lenders who handled their capital
in the form of coin by exchanging it for notes of
individuals. This was as early as the twelfth century.
Since that time in every civilized community there has
been experiment upon methods for quickening exchanges
<pb n='141'/><anchor id='Pg141'/>
through such organizations, some of which have been of
great advantage and some have brought disaster. The
modern system of banking is the result of all these
centuries of experience, a history of which cannot be
given here.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Bank described.</hi>&mdash;A brief description of the most
modern form of banks under state or national restrictions
will help to understand how these institutions
serve the world of commerce.
</p>

<p>
In simplest terms, a bank is a company founded for
the sole purpose of dealing in coin and current certificates
of credit of every form, the prime object being
the convenience of people in making exchanges of any
kind. Sometimes a bank is called upon simply to make
change, or, as we say, to break a valuable coin or a bill
of large denomination into smaller pieces. On the
border land between two countries the banker serves a
traveler by exchanging the coins of the country he
leaves for coins of the country he enters.
</p>

<p>
Often the bank, equipped with safe protection
against fire or robbers, receives the wealth of others in
any form of money for safe keeping, with provision
for its being paid when it is needed, whenever and
wherever the owner directs. The same bank may be
asked to exchange the money in its possession for notes
of individuals payable on demand or at definite future
time. It may even issue notes of the firm in place of
the individual notes received, acquaintance of a community
with the standing of the bank as a dealer in
money making its notes circulate where individual
notes would not. In this case the wider credit of the
<pb n='142'/><anchor id='Pg142'/>
bank is exchanged for the limited credit of individuals.
In the end a well established bank in close association
with a system of banks is expected to do any service
that has to do with either money or credit, so long as
the credit approximates cash transactions, and has not
drifted into overdue debts requiring courts and officials
for collection.
</p>

<p>
So important are all these functions of a bank to the
interests of society that distinct provision is needed in
the law of the land for establishing the bank and maintaining
its efficiency. The double system of government
in our country known as state and national leads
to two classes of banks, called state or national according
as they are organized under authority of state
government or under national laws.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>State banks.</hi>&mdash;The independent laws of any state
are supposed to provide such restrictions as the people
desire for the management of banks. Any bank chartered
by the state government is subject simply to the
laws of the state pertaining to banks and is called a
state bank, whatever the name under which it does
business.
</p>

<p>
The laws of the different states vary indefinitely, but
the essentials of a banking law quite recently established
in one of the states may serve to illustrate the modern
ideals as to safe, legitimate banking. Under this law a
bank must be a corporation of not less than five persons
who have subscribed for the entire stock and have paid
at least 50 per cent of the value of this stock before
beginning business, with provision for payment of
10 per cent each month until the whole of the capital
<pb n='143'/><anchor id='Pg143'/>
stock is paid for in cash. Each stock-holder is individually
liable to an amount equal to the value of his stock
for any debts of the bank in excess of its original
stock. Having settled upon a name distinct from all
others, its application is made to a bank commissioner
for a charter to do business in banking according to the
laws of the state. Under the charter issued by the commissioner,
the bank is required to be managed by a
board of directors, from five to thirteen in number,
which board elects the needed officers and appoints the
necessary clerks. It cannot increase its capital except
by fully paid stock, and can do no other kind of business,
like buying and selling of goods and lands, or
managing factories and railroads. It is authorized to
receive deposits and make loans at interest not above
legal rate, provided it keeps on hand available funds,
including bank balances, amounting to 20 per cent of its
total deposits, and never loans to one individual or firm
more than 15 per cent of the paid up capital of the
bank. A penalty of fine and imprisonment follows conviction
of any officer for receiving deposits after general
insolvency is known.
</p>

<p>
Each bank is required to report to the commissioner
at least quarterly, and whenever called upon
to publish its report; while failure to comply with
requirements of the commissioner in report or otherwise
brings immediate forfeiture of the charter. The
commissioner or his deputy must visit each bank at
least once a year and whenever occasion may require.
If, upon examination, a bank is found insolvent the
commissioner himself takes charge of the business for
<pb n='144'/><anchor id='Pg144'/>
final settlement of its affairs. These important restrictions
and careful inspection are thought necessary to
secure the public interests in banking. The state
through its bank commissioner gives guaranty to the
public of legitimate and safe banking. The value of
that guaranty, of course, depends upon the honesty,
experience and executive ability of the bank commissioner,
whose term of office and compensation should
make him as independent as possible of any weakening
influence. Under present arrangements no state banks
issue their notes as currency because of a national tax
of 10 per cent, which prevents a possible profit from its
issue. Present state laws, therefore, make no provision
for that function, unless by statutes existing before the
organization of national banks. The states still have
the constitutional right, apparently, to charter banks of
issue, but the advantages of uniformity throughout the
nation are so evident as to make such action very
improbable.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>National banks.</hi>&mdash;The so-called national banks organized
under authority of United States government have
been in existence since 1863, and have proved, so far as
currency is concerned, such an improvement upon anything
preceding in the way of bank issues, that few have
advocated any return to former methods. The system as
now existing places the authority of the United States in
an officer called the comptroller of the currency. The
law requires an association of five or more persons with
a definite name and location, having not less than
$100,000 capital ($50,000 in small towns) all paid within
six months of beginning business. Share-holders are
<pb n='145'/><anchor id='Pg145'/>
individually responsible for debts of the bank, aside from
their stock, to an amount equal to their stock.
</p>

<p>
In banks having over $5,000,000 capital a surplus of
20 per cent may take the place of this individual responsibility.
Not less than one-fourth of the capital stock,
usually one-third, is deposited in the United States
Treasury in the form of registered bonds of the United
States, to be held exclusively for security of circulating
notes. These notes are issued to the bank by the comptroller
to the amount of not more than 90 per cent of the
market value of the bonds deposited. These notes,
printed by the government, signed, registered and sealed
in the United States Treasury, in denominations from
five dollars to one thousand dollars, become money when
signed by the officers of the bank whose name they bear.
The cost of these notes, together with the cost of restoring
when worn out, as well as the expenses of the comptroller's
office, are met by a tax of 1 per cent per annum,
paid semi-annually, upon the average amount of notes
in circulation during the previous six months. Such
notes are not a legal tender, but are received at par for
all dues to the United States except duties on imports,
and for all demands against the United States except
interest on the public debt and in redemption of currency.
Any other issue of notes is prohibited, and worn
out notes are cancelled and burned in the Treasury of
the United States, being replaced by new.
</p>

<p>
The banks in sixteen principal cities are required to
hold a reserve equal to 25 per cent of their circulating
notes in lawful money of the United States, namely coin
or treasury notes, and all other banks must have a reserve
<pb n='146'/><anchor id='Pg146'/>
equal to 15 per cent of their circulating notes in
the same form. This reserve is held for the redemption
of the notes, provision being made for such redemption
at the Sub-treasury of the United States in New York
city, bank balances and clearing house certificates in the
larger cities being counted as part of the reserve. The
object of this is to secure ready redemption of any note
in all parts of the nation.
</p>

<p>
The comptroller's office includes expert examiners,
and to it each bank must report at least five times a
year, with other special reports as called for. Each bank
is subject to examination at the pleasure of the comptroller,
and in case of failure to redeem bills or comply
with the law, the comptroller has power to take possession
of the bank and close its business. The usual
banking business of any national bank proceeds according
to the laws of the state in which it exists, the legal
rate of interest of the state being compulsory.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Advantages and disadvantages of national bank currency.</hi>&mdash;The
advantage of such a uniform system of
bank notes is evident. The bills are secure beyond the
possibility of doubt as to their final redemption, and
therefore circulate freely without reference to the failure
of the bank issuing them. In case of failure, all the
banks form a ready machinery for collecting the bills
for final redemption at the United States treasury.
The frequent reports and expert inspection give as satisfactory
means of maintaining safe management as can
be secured by law. The possibility of connivance between
examiners and bank officers is reduced to a
minimum.
</p>

<pb n='147'/><anchor id='Pg147'/>

<p>
At the same time, there are disadvantages from several
sources. First, United States bonds do not form a
permanent basis. Second, the market value of these
bonds and the low rate of interest make the use of
capital in the shape of circulating notes less profitable
than other capital in the bank. This is especially true
in the newer communities where interest is high, and
banks so located are likely to surrender their circulating
notes at times when money loaning is most profitable,
and thus cause a fluctuating volume of currency in the
country. Third, the national banks are easily made objects
of suspicion as to matters of legislation with
reference to money.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Government banks.</hi>&mdash;Similar institutions under direct
management of government officers have often
been thought of as bringing the banking machinery
within the direct judgment of the people, and so best
meeting the wants of the community as a whole. The
advantages of unity and publicity in such a system
seem evident, and yet in actual practice the safeguards
against misuse of power have proved on trial less satisfactory
in such methods than in several others. The
history of debased coinage already referred to shows
that men in power may easily disregard the interests of
the people, and under popular government both officers
and legal restraints are subject to changes in the
interest of localities and parties. It is possible that a
stable body of experts might manage such an institution
under laws as stable as the Constitution with success.
But the restraints of law are most effective upon
institutions outside official circles.
</p>

<pb n='148'/><anchor id='Pg148'/>

<p>
A government bank is subject to extreme pressure
from popular demand under any financial distress to
issue currency for general improvements in public
buildings, parks, etc., which can bring no return and
afford no means of redemption. Even the demand of
unfortunate debtors for extended loans may push the
bank into excessive issues, and finally lead to the scaling
of debts and currency together in an effort to
escape the results of over-issue.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Bank business.</hi>&mdash;Whatever the organization of a
bank, its business must be essentially the same. It
receives deposits from its customers for safe keeping and
for convenience in use by means of checks. A check
is simply an order to pay, and, if the receiver is a customer
of the bank, amounts to merely a transfer of
deposits from one owner to another on the books of the
bank. A thousand dollars safely kept in the bank vault
may thus change owners a hundred times by means of
checks properly recorded. In large transactions the
check, because of its economy, takes place of any other
form of currency. The bank must also deal in drafts,
by which exchanges can be made in different cities, and
in bills of exchange, distinguished from ordinary drafts
by special reference to foreign trade. It may also hold,
as a part of its available machinery, clearing house certificates,
which are statements of balances due in the
daily settlement between the banks belonging to a
clearing house association.
</p>

<p>
All these form a part of the machinery of every-day
exchange, and together with a complete system of book-keeping
make the utmost facility in the use of money.
</p>

<pb n='149'/><anchor id='Pg149'/>

<p>
They also greatly economize in the use of money by saving
cost of counting and of transfer, and by securing
against losses. If the system offered no more advantages
than this safe and ready use of good money, the
banks would be practically indispensable. But they
have a still greater use in a safe extension of credit.
The perfection of system in banking makes it possible
for one who habitually fulfils his promises to purchase
anywhere in the world on the shortest notice with the
simple guaranty of credit in the bank where he does
business. A traveler wishing to have funds in safe-keeping,
and yet available on a journey around the
world, may obtain through a bank familiar with his
business standing a letter of credit, upon which he can
draw, wherever he may be, against the deposit in his
favor, and his draft will be paid, through a series of
banks, at the bank near his business connections. Thus
the credit of the world is bound together by the banking
system grown up to meet the necessities of trade.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The clearing house.</hi>&mdash;All forms of credit referred to
above, where dealers are customers of a single bank, are
easily brought together upon the books of that bank,
and will practically cancel each other. The customers
of many banks in large cities may have their checks and
drafts brought into a single system of book-keeping
through a clearing house, which is simply a bank of
banks. At a certain hour each day, in the larger cities
twice a day, each bank of the city brings to the clearing
house all checks and drafts against any other banks.
These are quickly sorted, charged to the several banks
against which they are drawn, and credited to the banks
<pb n='150'/><anchor id='Pg150'/>
from which they are brought. The balance of debit and
credit is settled then and there, either by transfer of
cash, or by issue of a clearing house certificate that a
bank has a balance in its favor, and so only a small
amount of cash is used in settling all transactions of an
immense business. The clearings of a single day reach
hundreds of millions of dollars, and form an index of
the business prosperity of the country.
</p>

<p>
The system saves the risk and cost of transferring
back and forth immense amounts of coin and currency,
and brings the business men of the country into ready
contact with each other. It is an essential part of the
means of settlement between different cities and different
countries. A debt in any part of the world can
be paid through a draft on London, which by means of
the clearing house and its associated banks can be purchased
anywhere and paid without delay. Since the
purchasing power of any part of the world is chiefly in
what it has to sell, the constant motion of checks and
drafts in opposite directions will balance each other. If
there were no long time credits, the purchases of any
city would essentially equal its sales; and so with perfect
clearance all trade would be quickly adjusted with but
little use of money except for retail business.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Other clearing systems.</hi>&mdash;So evident are the advantages
of clearing houses in banking that the system extends
to many other interests. Railroad corporations
balance accounts against each other by exchange of
tickets issued by the different roads. Large combinations
of dealers in implements or other goods find a
similar service available where they can work together
<pb n='151'/><anchor id='Pg151'/>
with confidence. Express companies sharing in a common
service divide the final proceeds upon the same
principle. So evident is the advantage that the growth
has been rapid during recent years, and seems likely to
extend still further.
</p>

<p>
Some effort has been made to establish farmers' exchanges
upon a similar plan, but as yet with little success.
The obstacles are chiefly in the want of business
confidence in business habits among the farmers themselves.
Since the system is strictly a credit system,
exact promptness in meeting engagements and constant
dealing in the same channels are absolutely necessary.
Most farmers, having comparatively few transactions
from day to day, are loath to attach themselves as constant
customers in any association. With larger experience
and more neighborly contact they are finding it
possible to work in association for various purposes, and
will doubtless enlarge their means of business credit as
their progress in mutual understanding increases.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Government inspection.</hi>&mdash;The principal support of
universal credit through banking is the assurance that
uniform methods, honest in principle and accurate in execution,
are followed. To secure these results a system
of government inspection and guaranty seems absolutely
necessary. If the public faith is to be maintained, the
ground of that faith must be publicly established. The
more complete the examination by trusted officials and
the more frequent the publication of official reports, the
better the public credit. It seems possible that even individual
trustworthiness may become a matter of government
record as it is now of private consideration in
<pb n='152'/><anchor id='Pg152'/>
all business circles. One chief guaranty of credit
through the banks is the strict inquiry made by the
banks themselves into the business standing of their customers.
If the record were perfect, the chief weakness
of the credit system would be largely removed.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The balance of trade.</hi>&mdash;The bulk of trade between
countries, that is of dealers in different countries, is
settled in the usual routine of banking as has been indicated;
but since under present systems the standards
of value are given in different terms in different countries,
somewhat more of friction remains in such trade.
A greater attention is given to the fact of final settlement
in coin or bullion. The price of exchange from a
country whose dealers owe more than is due them, under
the law of supply and demand, soon arises to an amount
sufficient to cover the cost of transporting gold or silver.
When these metals are used in payment by transportation
from one country to another they are said to indicate
the balance of trade; that is, they show that more of
other property comes into the country than goes out.
This balance of trade is supposed to show the relative
prosperity of a nation, and is said to be against it when
the nation buys more than it sells.
</p>

<p>
It is usually sought in the difference between the value
of coin or bullion exported and of that imported. In
two sets of circumstances a large correction is necessary
to show the actual condition of trade. One is where a
nation is buying on long credit, as in case of great enterprises
like railroads or factories, constructed by sale of
bonds in foreign countries or by sale of any other securities,
government or individual, in a foreign land. The
<pb n='153'/><anchor id='Pg153'/>
other is where a country like our own is a large producer
of gold and silver by mining. In this case the products
of the mines are as proper an article of export as the
products of the farms or of the factories, and should be
estimated as a part of the natural exports. For these
reasons the balance of trade must be carefully scrutinized
before being accepted as proof of a nation's progress in
poverty or wealth.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Bank loans.</hi>&mdash;So far, in dealing with the subject of
banking, no mention has been made of the function of
extending individual credit by time loans. One of the
original purposes of banking was to make a convenient
office for the meeting of borrowers and lenders. The
banks are still the go-betweens of those who have money
to lend and those who have to borrow. In fact, every
banking association is assumed to be a corporation of
money lenders. Under ordinary circumstances this corporation
is able to loan to individuals whose credit is
good all of its capital not otherwise employed in the
machinery of the bank, a considerable portion of deposits
from its customers, and to a certain extent its own credit
in the commercial world. In the case of a national bank
a portion of capital is loaned to the government in the
purchase of bonds, which are the basis of its circulating
notes. The circulating notes, from 60 per cent to 90 per
cent of the value of the bonds, are an extension of credit;
that is, the capital already loaned on time to the government
is partially loaned again to individuals. Again,
the deposits of the customers, to be drawn as needed, in
ordinary circumstances are not needed the same day.
The bank soon learns by experience what portion it is
<pb n='154'/><anchor id='Pg154'/>
safe to lend from day to day to individuals who are sure
to make payments when promised. Double signatures,
or endorsements, double the surety of prompt payment.
</p>

<p>
Thus the banks are enabled to provide safe keeping
for money without charge, and even to pay a low rate
of interest upon considerable deposits when times are
good. In this way legitimate borrowers and legitimate
lenders find a close connection in the bank. A legitimate
lender is one who has property not needed at
present for his own use. A legitimate borrower is one
who can use capital to advantage in production. Any
producer may at one part of a year be a lender and
afterward a borrower to advantage of everybody. If
the banks are thoroughly satisfactory the proceeds of
the fall crops may serve the busy manufacturers as
circulating capital during the winter. Again, the proceeds
of the spring sales of goods and machinery may
tide the farmers over the season of growth.
</p>

<p>
In this way labor of every kind is sustained by labor
of every other kind. In all these ways the banking
power of a country is extended to several times the coin
money in circulation, and that with perfect safety. But
it is possible for banks to be tempted through the very
perfection of their own credit. The note of an
individual has no established market value. A deposit
in the bank is valued as cash. It is possible to secure
the credit of having a bank deposit by discounting an
individual note. If that note is a time note the bank
has increased its immediate liabilities by the amount of
a nominal deposit, with only a promise to pay in the
future to rest upon. To lend to an individual is practically
<pb n='155'/><anchor id='Pg155'/>
to enter into partnership with his fortune. The
fortunes of the group of individuals representing the
bank is less doubtful than that of any one person.
The borrower in this instance pays in the discount of
his note the difference in risk between his fortune and
that of the combination. Such deposits purchased upon
credit must be distinguished from deposits of cash, lest
the bank should nominally increase its power to lend
while in fact it has already lent up to its ability. Sometimes
such nominal deposits are maintained by persons
deeply in debt for the sake of paying a larger rate of
interest than is allowed by law.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Safety of banking.</hi>&mdash;In times of business prosperity
a bank with usual business caution as to customers, is
safe for all concerned. And yet, in the very nature of
extended credit, it has promised to pay on any particular
day, if demanded, far more than it has cash in hand.
Its liabilities embrace the whole of its deposits except a
small portion made for a definite time, and all its issues
of currency subject to redemption. To meet these
engagements its immediate resources are whatever currency
in any form of coin or bills it may have at hand.
This amount, since its profits are made from lending,
not from holding, must be small in proportion to its
liabilities. The bulk of its means of payment is in
notes not yet due, and to be collected when due. Of
other property it is likely to have bonds of municipalities
or of great corporations, and these are supposed to
be a more available form of resources than individual
notes, because they usually have a definite market value
and can be sold or used as security for loans in any
<pb n='156'/><anchor id='Pg156'/>
money market. If real estate forms a part of the
capital, it can never be made available for immediate
use. Hence any bank dealing in mortgages on real
estate invests its funds where they cannot be had when
wanted. All banking schemes based upon security in
land have necessarily failed, because land has no current
use in trade.
</p>

<p>
Under the pressure of panic, from whatever source,
each depositor is sure to demand every cent due him
from the bank, and just as certainly the bank's own
resources are insufficient to meet those dues without the
sale of bonds and notes in other markets. For these
reasons in any great period of distrust the banks are
obliged to suspend payments. Since all the banks of
the community are in similar circumstances they cannot
help each other, and time must be given for the collection
of loans, according to agreement, that the gradual
accumulation of ready cash may return to the vault,
and so to the depositors, all that has been loaned.
Because of this necessary instability bankers watch most
carefully the tendencies of the money market, and
necessarily reduce their loans for safety when any
anxious pressure begins. For the same reason legitimate
banking is limited to short time loans&mdash;on demand,
thirty, sixty, ninety days&mdash;the shorter being the safer.
Laws sometimes prohibit a bank from dealing in any
other business, where a stock of goods must tie up
funds, or from speculation in real estate, which confines
capital more certainly.
</p>

<p>
In most banks the amount to be loaned to a single
individual or firm is limited to a small portion, one-tenth
<pb n='157'/><anchor id='Pg157'/>
to one-fifth, of the total capital. The principal
causes of failure in banking are defalcation of officers,
misuse of funds in speculative enterprises, dealing in
speculative securities or on boards of trade, careless
loaning to poor paymasters, investment in long time
securities not readily marketable, or sacrifice in hurried
sale of stocks and bonds under the pressure of panic.
</p>

<p>
The better the customers of a bank understand its
condition and management, the less is its danger, for
the basis of banking, as of the credit of the world, is
the public confidence. Farmers who acquaint themselves
with the workings of neighboring banks by
making use of their aid in business benefit both themselves
and their neighbors. The progress of the world
demands of every farmer a closer contact with business
and, therefore, a greater familiarity with business
methods. Even the burden of debts will be lessened
when farmers understand and appreciate the advantage
of systematic credit. The dangers from over expansion
of credit are lessened when all the people clearly understand
the essential conditions for maintaining credit.
The final perfection of a banking system depends upon
the interest of the whole people, with a fair knowledge
of the growth already made.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='158'/><anchor id='Pg158'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<anchor id='Chapter_XII'/>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XII. Deferred Settlement And Credit Expansion.</head>

<p>
The general bearing of settlement in trade, deferred
by promises to pay in the distant future, has been several
times referred to in preceding chapters; but its
bearing upon the general welfare is so marked in many
ways as to deserve more particular treatment. The
special form by which one man becomes a purchaser on
the strength of future abilities may have little importance
in the total result, but some peculiarities of the
different forms are worthy of mention.
</p>

<p>
A <emph>standing account</emph> without definite period of settlement
easily becomes a temptation to waste, as well as a
source of worry, when the account is extended. A
friend remarks, <q>You never seem so well off as when
you don't expect to pay for what you buy, although the
reason may be that you can't pay for it.</q> The fact
that the day of settlement may be indefinitely postponed
makes the temptation to overestimate the chances
of future ability. An account almost certainly insures
the purchase of ordinary supplies without asking the
price, and only frequent and complete settlement makes
safe for ordinary people the expenditure of income
through store accounts.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Promissory notes</hi> due at a definite time have less
<pb n='159'/><anchor id='Pg159'/>
effect upon the imagination; yet payment a year hence
seems always easier than payment now. Only repeated
bitter experiences teach one to say, as I once heard an
old gentleman, when offered a horse to replace his dead
one without limit as to the time of payment, <q>That
sounds very well, my friend, but it is a mighty hard
way at the latter end.</q> Every farmer familiar with
country auctions, with a year's credit upon purchases,
sees the effect of such postponements in magnifying the
value of articles purchased.
</p>

<p>
A note secured by <hi rend='italic'>chattel mortgage</hi> in the nature of
the security is less extended and has the distinct hardship
of future payment presented in the possible loss of
the chattel offered as security. The chattel mortgage,
therefore, becomes a favorite method for short time
delays in payment, not only because the security is
good, but because the full attention of the maker is
given to the necessity of payment.
</p>

<p>
A most familiar form of deferred payment for farm
property is the <hi rend='italic'>mortgage note</hi>, secured by a deed entitling
the holder to take possession of the farm, or real
estate of any kind, upon failure of the maker of the
note to meet its conditions. This is esteemed the best
possible security for payments long deferred, because
the ordinary values of real estate in a growing country
like ours increase rather than diminish. Except in
cases of overvaluation from speculative investment, or
in the settlement of a new country under misconception
of its conditions, the security remains ample. And
even then the lender has no greater risk than the borrower.
Since final settlement by foreclosure of mortgage
<pb n='160'/><anchor id='Pg160'/>
involves the law's delay, increased by the natural
sentiment growing up about a home which has been
occupied for years, such mortgage notes are only to a
limited extent available in general commerce. In large
measure they are likely to stand between the original purchaser
and seller. The exception to this is found in investment
of large trust funds, as with insurance companies
and endowments of colleges and other benevolent institutions.
In these cases a permanent investment, with
stated income, is desirable, and mortgage notes with five
to ten years' credit give better rates of income than
long time bonds of great corporations or governments.
The ease with which purchase is made by a mortgage
tempts many a young man to promise more than he can
fulfil. The weight of the farm mortgage is felt throughout
the country, doubling the disaster of every deficient
crop. Variations from the mortgage in deeds of trust
and instalment contracts have essentially the same
relation to credit, involve essentially the same burdens,
and differ only in the legal forms for taking possession
of the real estate in default of payment.
</p>

<p>
Where a company or a community defers payment
for its purchases, it is said to issue <hi rend='italic'>bonds</hi>, which are
simply formal notes, usually with attached notes, or
coupons, for interest at stated times, issued by qualified
officers under specific legislation. These are so easily
understood and tested for their quality as to become a
part of the general credit of the country. They gain a
well understood market value, and pass from hand to
hand with greatest readiness. This fact adds to the
ease with which they may be issued, while the extended
<pb n='161'/><anchor id='Pg161'/>
time, from ten to thirty years, increases both the convenience
of possession and the readiness to issue. The
people of a city do not hesitate to supply themselves
with magnificent waterworks at the expense of the
people a generation later. Thus municipal indebtedness
is easy to contract, and the hard lesson of paying
for dead horses is seldom effectually learned. More
insidious still is the temptation to issue the bonds of a
county for the building of a railroad, whose prospective
benefit in adding to the value of lands is indefinitely
magnified. A community of farmers already burdened
by mortgages can be tempted into additional burdens in
county bonds from expectation that a new railroad will
double the value of their farms. The facility with
which states and nations negotiate bonds is so well
understood that it scarcely needs mention. Yet the
burdens of taxation so grievously felt are often self-inflicted
by the people who favor unbounded indebtedness.
It is rarely the case that a well-to-do school district
is not better off when it meets the cost of its
schoolhouse by immediate taxes rather than to postpone
payment by bonds.
</p>

<p>
The organization of a <hi rend='italic'>stock company</hi> involves a
peculiar system of deferred payments, in that every
holder of stock becomes in a sense both debtor and
creditor. He is debtor to all his associate shareholders,
and is also their creditor to the extent of his
share. <hi rend='italic'>Stock certificates</hi>, like bonds, may pass from
hand to hand with ease, and foster the innate spirit
of speculation among a commercial people. The organization
of a stock company, especially of a great trust,
<pb n='162'/><anchor id='Pg162'/>
is made relatively easy from this fact, and in this way
the general credit of a people is indefinitely extended.
A prosperous corporation is likely to distribute the results
of its prosperity by increased issues of stock, and
the readiness with which the public accepts such issues
makes natural, though vicious, the so-called <hi rend='italic'>watering of
stock</hi>, familiar to all. The immediate object of watered
stock in fairly managed companies is the immediate
distribution among shareholders of any increased value
without increased cost. As the farms along a line of
railway may have doubled their value with no expenditure
in improvements, so the railroad itself may have
doubled its value in the possibility of earnings through
the rapid development of settlements along the line. In
ordinary ways this increased value will be shown in the
market price of the stock, but an issue of more stock to
the present holders of stock certificates will keep down
the price of individual shares and yet give the benefit
of the increased value to shareholders.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The stock exchange.</hi>&mdash;The last mentioned forms of
indebtedness so easily become matters of everyday purchase
and sale as to lead to the business of stock brokerage,
found everywhere in greater or less extent. In
large cities the brokers naturally unite for convenience
of business in the so-called stock exchange, in which the
market price of all current forms of indebtedness or
deferred payments is fixed from day to day, or from
hour to hour, by the higgling of the market, just as the
price of produce is fixed in the produce exchange. Naturally,
as in the case of produce, a fictitious business,
purely speculative, grows up around the legitimate dealing
<pb n='163'/><anchor id='Pg163'/>
in stocks and bonds. Other forms of deferred payments
enter less into the business of the brokers, because the
market value of any particular mortgage or individual
note cannot be easily determined outside the immediate
neighborhood where it is made. The chief way in which
these enter the general brokers' market is through the
stock or bonds of large brokers' companies, sometimes
called guaranty loan companies. In this way the universal
extension of credit through deferred payments
finally has its effect upon the general confidence. The
broker's business grows legitimately out of the need of
ready transfer of claims, for the sake of larger use of
the floating capital of the country, and readiness of
investment in more fixed forms. It adds, however, to
the dangers of extended credit by making more easy the
gratification of present wants through expectation of
future ability. The broker makes his gain, without
reference to the final settlement, by taking a commission
upon the loan. His interest leads to an overestimate of
the borrower's ability, and cases are not infrequent
where appraisers of real estate have been hired by brokers
to misrepresent the value of property, for the sake
of securing improper loans.
</p>

<p>
Every period of expanding credit in speculative movements
has furnished proofs of this tendency. A standing
example is furnished in mining stocks, in which the
temptation to misrepresent prospects by <q>salting</q> and
false assays is proverbial. Almost as notorious are the
misrepresentations associated with bonds of newly established
cities or other municipalities. Not all such
misrepresentation is intended fraud, but the immediate
<pb n='164'/><anchor id='Pg164'/>
interest of the broker clouds his judgment as to conditions
of final settlement. With little to lose and everything
to gain in the immediate transaction, his judgment
is necessarily biased. The merely speculative buying
and selling of stocks by margins has little to do with the
general character of indebtedness, except to increase
somewhat the risks of legitimate brokerage. The <q>bulls
and bears</q> on exchange make their gains by fluctuations
in market values, and, like all gamblers, delight
in producing false impressions upon their opponents in
the game. This fact adds to the uncertainty of all
standing credit, and so increases the natural rate of
interest. This effect upon interest will be noticed in
considering the nature of interest and conditions affecting
it.
</p>

<p>
<q><hi rend='italic'>Borrowed money.</hi></q>&mdash;In all the forms of deferred
payment, except standing accounts, it is customary to
represent the amount of the debt as <q>borrowed money,</q>
no matter how the transaction occurs. When a farmer
buys his farm with a promise to pay five years hence,
his note is said to represent so much <q>borrowed money,</q>
while in fact he has simply borrowed the farm. The
reason is, that the farm is represented by its value in
dollars, and the promise is to return that value in dollars
at the end of five years.
</p>

<p>
The same is true, in fact, of all purchases on credit.
Even when the purchase is made by means of a note at
the bank, the actual transfer of property is from the
owner of the farm to its prospective owner, the bank
simply acting as agent, and interposing its credit or
capital only to promote the exchange. In many instances
<pb n='165'/><anchor id='Pg165'/>
no money in any form is used, and where it is employed
at some stage of the transaction, it is used, as in any
other exchange, simply as a machine of transfer. Even
the final settlement is likely to be made through the ordinary
channels of trade, without the intervention of
money in any of its forms. The deferred payment takes
its place when the time of payment comes in the ordinary
everyday transactions of the universal credit system,
illustrated in banking. Even if the farm is paid
for by instalments, those instalments are simply ordinary
transactions in trade, the farmer transferring the
check which he receives from the sale of his steers or his
wheat to the former owner of the farm. The money involved
is simply money of account, referring to a well
understood standard of value. The importance of this
standard in reference to deferred payments has already
been referred to. It cannot be overestimated. But
any estimate of the currency needed, or to be needed for
the transaction of business, founded upon the amount of
deferred payments, is wholly fallacious.
</p>

<p>
It is equally wrong to suppose that the bankers are
the principal money-lenders. The real lenders are those
who have sold their produce, the use of their tools or
their time, at a price to be paid next week, next month
or next year. Every man who has wages due him is as
truly a money-lender, to the extent of the wages due, as
any banker who accepts a promise to pay in the future
for service or value given in the present. Even where
the borrowed articles have been consumed or wasted, the
promise to pay is simply a promise to return so much of
value as the articles received were estimated to be
<pb n='166'/><anchor id='Pg166'/>
worth. This may be easily seen in thinking of a running
account at the store for the ordinary supplies of
the family. It may amount to five hundred dollars, if
one's credit is sufficient, and seem only the actual
articles used, and yet to be paid for; but if settled by a
note fixing a future definite time of payment, the debt
at once becomes in thought borrowed money, though no
change whatever has been made in the actual facts. If
the same purchases had been made by means of credit at
the bank, gained by discounting a personal note, the
same articles exactly would have been borrowed, the
bank instead of the merchant being the lender. In all
probability the bank has been the means in the first case
of enabling the merchant to meet these current wants on
credit, for he himself has gained the credit of the bank
by discounting his own note. In either case the bank
has been the means of serving both the borrower and
the lender. It is simply a machine for accommodating
both.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Legal tender.</hi>&mdash;All forms of deferred payments imply
the possible intervention in final settlement of the force
of government. While the great mass of promises to
pay are met without an appeal to laws or courts, the
whole is put in such form by customs of society as to
involve the possibility of such arbitration. Government
takes no note of debts which cannot be proved in
court, and the forms of legal proof are well settled. All
the formalities of credit in systems of book-keeping,
forms of notes and bonds, and wording of stock certificates
imply the possibility of final adjustment in a
court of equity. For this reason, governments establish
<pb n='167'/><anchor id='Pg167'/>
some form of currency as the representative of
value, which must be accepted by the creditor in complete
satisfaction of a debt. This is naturally what custom
has established as the standard of value, but anything
else may be substituted if the government so
decides. Thus, Massachusetts once made bullets legal
tender at a certain price, up to a certain number. Our
government now makes copper cents and nickels legal
tender to the value of twenty-five cents.
</p>

<p>
The current notes of the government are usually
legal tender, unless otherwise stipulated, whatever their
current value. This means simply that the government
through its courts secures the collection of <hi rend='italic'>bona fide</hi>
debts, in terms of value defined by law or by contract.
The assurance of final settlement, given in this way by
the government, is one principal element in extending
credit on time. Without such machinery credit would
be confined to intimate acquaintances and very limited
time.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Expanding credit.</hi>&mdash;All the machinery of credit
tends to bring the floating capital of a country within
the reach of great enterprises. If a body of men have
faith in some great undertaking, like a continental railroad
or a Panama canal, their faith in the enterprise is
easily made a basis for the faith of others. Even the
small accumulations, the savings of day laborers, may
be turned to account in such great enterprises if the
popular expectation of success is thoroughly aroused.
The greater the undertaking, the greater is the general
faith under skilful leadership.
</p>

<p>
The same principle applies to undertakings of less
<pb n='168'/><anchor id='Pg168'/>
national character, like immense factories or combinations
in a trust. The stock of such enterprises is often
widely distributed, and when profits are fairly begun,
even upon a small scale, the chances of gain on the
value of the stock are made more prominent than the
actual profits of the enterprise. It is not uncommon to
find enterprises starting with the expectation that a
large portion of this stock will be paid for out of the
profits of the business and the profits on a portion of
the stock to be sold. This is especially true when business
is reviving after a period of depression. It is one
of the first symptoms of the return of a speculative
spirit. With the rise of such enterprises there is
almost sure to be an advance in prices of real estate,
though it follows later.
</p>

<p>
The starting of a railroad line involves the purchase
of station sites, and almost surely the laying out of villages
at intervals along the line. The promoters of the
railroad are likely to be promoters of town sites as well.
And this increased demand for farms and lots brings a
larger faith in the future of these locations. Everyone
who can save a little from his income hopes to increase
that little indefinitely by investment in the chances of
increased value of a lot or a home. Under such circumstances
the machinery of credit moves easily, and
one does not hesitate to extend his credit to the utmost
for the purchase of what is increasing in value each
day. The result is a temptation to larger expenditures.
</p>

<p>
People who are counting their future gains are sure
to have larger wants, and their seeming prosperity in
<pb n='169'/><anchor id='Pg169'/>
accumulation of value gives them a larger credit among
dealers. The next step is an enlargement of sales of
current supplies of all sorts and an increasing manufacture
of such supplies to meet the increasing wants
and naturally enhancing price. Soon the staple products
of farms and factories and mines become themselves
objects of speculative purchase. Men buy simply
to hold for the increase in price. This speculation
itself is a temporary cause of success, and goes on until
some accident somewhere reveals the exaggerated proportions
of expectation. Sometimes this speculative
spirit continues for a series of years, in which case it
pervades every circle of producers and consumers.
Sometimes it is temporary and local, being produced by
some special undertaking and destroyed by a special
failure. Sometimes the death of an enterprising man
destroys the "boom" he has created. When speculation
is rife over a large territory, everybody is employed to
his utmost ability, and the times are said to be good.
All property of every kind is counted at its highest
price in the mind of the owner, and all credits are
easily extended from month to month, or from year to
year, because of the universal faith. There seems to
the casual observer no reason for doubt, and the most
conservative judges overestimate the ability of the
people.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Financial crisis.</hi>&mdash;At such a time as that described,
when credits of every kind are interlocked and expectations
are high, the so-called floating capital of the country,
under indefinite promises to pay, is gradually being
actually locked up in huge plants of machinery in great
<pb n='170'/><anchor id='Pg170'/>
railroad routes, in vacant city lots, and uncultivated
farms held for future sale, or in warehouses and elevators
full of the products of industry,&mdash;especially such
products as do not immediately deteriorate in quality,
such as grains, cloths, raw materials of every kind and
machinery of general use. This is apparently the
property of the holders, but against it are the claims of
all those who have contributed by loans on time, by
credit for sales, by labor unpaid for and by provisions
on account. One can easily see that with all these
people bound together by credit a single failure may be
far-reaching in its effects. The inability of a single
man to meet his promises, if those promises are widely
enough distributed, may bring a panic among his creditors,
their creditors, and so on down to even the solid
men, supposed to hold the accumulation of years untouched
by speculation. For every channel of trade is
full of credit, which now everybody loses.
</p>

<p>
In 1873 the promoter of the Northern Pacific railroad
had borrowed everywhere, even the small savings
of widows and workmen, through his intimate connection
with banking. All this accumulation of savings
had been expended for labor upon what was only a huge
embankment, making no possible returns to any owner.
The only possible means of continuing the work was
continued borrowing, or the sale of additional stock.
The revenue promised upon the means already used
could be given only by larger borrowing. On a certain
day the amount to be borrowed was less than the
amount to be paid, and the failure of Jay Cooke to
meet his expectations and promises was known. Within
<pb n='171'/><anchor id='Pg171'/>
six hours every village in the land felt the disaster. The
financial crisis was seen and realized. Bargains partially
completed were stopped in the midst. Materials
about to be shipped were held at the station. Deposits
at the bank were needed immediately, notes due at the
bank could not be extended, collectors of accounts
appeared at every corner, thousands of workmen directly
and indirectly employed on the great railroad building
were out of employment and out of wages due, the
banks were unable to furnish even paper currency to
their depositors, and the whole world felt absolute loss
of confidence in any undertaking or any expectation.
</p>

<p>
I select this particular panic because its beginning
was so comparatively simple, its progress so evident
and its results so well defined. Any other failure of
speculative purpose might have been equally disastrous.
It could hardly have been so rapid, because it could not
have been so directly distributed among the masses of
the people. Yet the machinery of credit is such that
any considerable failure in enterprise or speculation is
felt everywhere. The banks are at once called upon for
larger loans and for deposits together, an impossibility
in the nature of the case. All exchangeable forms of
credit are immediately offered in market at constantly
decreasing prices. Current credit of every kind is
checked, and exchange is limited to the barest necessities.
All productive energies are practically stopped,
except such as are out of the line of daily exchanges.
Very soon all domestic expenses are reduced to the
lowest notch, domestic help is discharged, the well-to-do
undertake to help themselves, and the poor are left
<pb n='172'/><anchor id='Pg172'/>
without resources. It seems as if all the wheels of
progress had stopped.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Hard times.</hi>&mdash;Succeeding such a crisis must follow
hard times. Wage earners generally are without
employment; manufactories have put out their fires;
the warehouses full of goods are under attachment;
farm produce is moved very slowly to market; fancy
stock of horses, cattle and sheep are unsalable; farm
mortgages are foreclosed as rapidly as the laws allow;
skilled workmen meet absolute necessities by half time,
and common laborers move from place to place in useless
search for employment, their families being barely
kept alive by charity. The fact that warehouses and
granaries are full leads to the assumption that over-production
has destroyed the market and the demand for
labor. This is quite probably true of all articles of such
a nature as to be held for speculative purposes. The
staple grains and fancy live stock are illustrations of
these. An universal over-production, so long as the
articles produced are adapted to current wants, is impossible,
since every man's product, if needed, is his
means of securing another man's product to meet his
own wants.
</p>

<p>
On the other hand, the suffering of multitudes and
the abstinence of everybody lead to the supposition that
under-consumption, or failure to use what we might,
is a principal cause. It is undoubtedly true that fear of
absolute want checks consumption of articles within our
reach. This is shown by the immediate increase of consumption
as soon as the fear subsides. This, however,
is a symptom of the times, rather than a cause.
</p>

<pb n='173'/><anchor id='Pg173'/>

<p>
Some theorists account for the suffering by the ratio
of the currency to the population, claiming that a larger
circulation of money will fill the empty pockets of the
needy, forgetting that money circulates only through the
very channels of trade which something else has stopped.
It is quite true that any financial legislation involving
uncertain results contributes materially to the doubt
which stops the machinery. All efforts to make money
worth less by legislation have invariably extended the
period of hard times. Almost every conceivable cause
has been assigned, or given as a partial explanation, for
the stagnation of trade. A careful analysis of these recurring
periods in the history of our country in 1837,
1848, 1857, 1873, 1887 and 1893, shows many partial
causes of disaster in exchange, affecting the peculiar
nature of each panic, yet one especial cause is evident in
them all. That cause is large investment in fixed capital
from which no immediate returns can be expected.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The chief causes of hard times.</hi>&mdash;Prior to 1837 there
was a rapid development of new country, as shown from
the greatly increased receipts for public lands. Every
new home involves a permanent investment of somebody's
savings to the extent of at least $1,000. With the
settlement of every new region a considerable waste in
real estate speculation is found. A similar expansion of
territory occupied by settlement immediately followed
the Mexican war, and was a chief cause of reduced capital
and consequent lack of employment.
</p>

<p>
The crisis of 1857 was preceded by enormous waste
in the Crimean war. To that was added the loss of a
season's labor in a bad harvest and increase of cost of
<pb n='174'/><anchor id='Pg174'/>
living, reducing profits. The latter cause was incidental
to this particular season, but added materially to the suffering.
In this country there had also been an extensive
enlargement in iron works and woolen factories without
corresponding products.
</p>

<p>
The panic of 1867, felt widely outside of America,
was preceded by immense waste of property in the civil
war of the United States, a considerable portion of
which expense, on both sides, had been borne in Europe,
either during the war or immediately following, through
the sale of bonds.
</p>

<p>
The panic of 1873 followed immense investments of
wealth in fixed capital, as illustrated in the Northern
Pacific railroad, previously mentioned. Between 1865
and 1873 30,000 miles of railroad were built in the
United States alone. This permanent investment involved
immense debts at home and abroad, <emph>with all the
profits yet in the future</emph>. The fact that imports increased
at the rate of nearly $100,000,000 a year in 1871 and
1872 indicates the extent of expenditures. The Franco-Prussian
war had also wasted great energies.
</p>

<p>
The hard times in America, shown especially in the
price of farms, about 1888 were immediately preceded
by enormous investments in unsatisfactory farming
lands and unneeded town sites, as well as in railroad
building. Forty-nine million acres of land were sold by
the government, and more than 12,000 miles of railway
were built. Enormous expenditures were also made for
school-houses, court-houses, and other public buildings
by sale of bonds. The actual crisis was perhaps delayed
and a new speculation fostered by large payments
<pb n='175'/><anchor id='Pg175'/>
on the public debt. Again, there was expansion of
credit and large investment in railroad and city building
in anticipation of future growth, during which the
small savings of multitudes had been gathered up
through the guaranty loan companies of the West.
Upon the top of this came the expenditures of 1892 and
1893 on the great World's Exposition. The expenditure
of savings in attendance upon the exposition curtailed
the abilities of hundreds of thousands of families.
So the panic of 1893 was in no respect an exception
to the rule. No sufficient data are at hand for
showing exactly how great has been the expenditure in
unproductive enterprises, but a reference to Chart No.
IV, p. 83, giving the development of railroad building
in this country, will show how this form of enterprise
in every case outran the increase in population immediately
preceding the hard times.
</p>

<p>
It is evident to any student of the question that extra
large consumption of floating capital has immediately
preceded every period of supposed over-production. The
chief over-production has always been in the machinery
of production and trade, including the costly settlement
of new land. The immediate dismissal of labor
employed in such enterprises brings greatest suffering,
because such laborers are always least forehanded and
are in large numbers homeless. Such laborers also most
readily become competitors for any kind of a job, and so
affect current wages of those still retaining their places.
This emphasizes the unequal distribution of wealth, and
leads multitudes to call for a redistribution, by fair
means or foul. This increases the distrust of community
<pb n='176'/><anchor id='Pg176'/>
and the disposition to hoard wealth in the form
of money, while checking every desire to build for the
future.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Remedies for hard times.</hi>&mdash;The means of recovery
from such a disaster are less easy to see than the causes.
We know, in fact, that the world does recover confidence
among enterprising men and confidence in the
future, sometimes surprisingly soon. We can see some
of the steps by which the burden of debt is diminished
and hopes are revived. In the first place, some method
of settlement out of the usual course is adopted. Most
obvious is an agreement among banks to carry on the
usual machinery of exchanges through checks, drafts
and a clearing house without the use of currency. This
is called suspension of payment. It holds the deposits
steady while the transfer of ownership is easy. It saves
the sacrifice of large credit to meet the panicky condition
of small trade, and it checks the disposition to hoard
money in out-of-the-way places. The actual failures
are thus confined to those actually engaged in the
wasted production or directly involved as creditors of
such persons. The failures in 1873 were said to have
been nine in each thousand business houses; those of
1893 were thirteen in a thousand. The actual failures
among farmers are confined almost entirely to those who
have been caught in the speculative spirit of investment
in more land for the sake of increasing prices or
have borrowed capital to be used in other speculation.
A few only have wasted their substance in expensive
homes and luxuries.
</p>

<p>
If all forms of indebtedness could circulate freely,
<pb n='177'/><anchor id='Pg177'/>
the final result in balancing debts with debts would be
quite readily reached, and the actual losses would be
found less than is generally supposed. An equal loss
without distrust, if that were possible, would be met
with new enterprise and extra energy instead of despondency.
</p>

<p>
The various remedies offered in proposed legislation
frequently add to the delays in the recovery of confidence.
The issue of paper currency, while universally
welcomed by the most wasteful of investors, makes
those who still have property more doubtful as to the
future. The proposition to increase demand for labor
by great public improvements comes at a time when
revenues are diminished and almost surely is coupled
with a proposal of government scrip. To increase the
burden of taxation at once, when the mass of the people
are already burdened and distressed, is impossible. The
issue of scrip, though actually a costly method of taxation,
seems to the unthinking a way of making something
out of nothing. The certain effect is to extend
the period of doubt. Laws affecting the coinage and
character of legal tender, since they disturb the relation
of borrower and lender indefinitely, postpone
readjustment of confidence. Changes in the tariff laws
are liable to have the same effect because of uncertainty
as to where the influence will be most felt. Special
legislation with reference to contracts for labor, however
well intended, are sure to hinder adjustment, and
all agitation in favor of new experiments in government
enterprises or in legislation as to property makes less
available the capital and ingenuity of the people.
</p>

<pb n='178'/><anchor id='Pg178'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Cure for hard times.</hi>&mdash;The only genuine cure involves
a restoration of faith in enterprise. It is almost as hard
to establish after a commercial panic as after a panic in
an army. The remedies best worth study are really
preventives, in the form of checks upon undue expansion
of credits and distinct limits as to extension of
time. Some have gone so far as to wish there were no
laws for collection of debts, since this would actually
prevent the great bulk of indebtedness; but it would
also destroy the essential foundation of daily credit, one
of the most productive machines of exchange. The
best that can be done is to make more explicit the laws
against frauds, and to limit easily transferred forms
of credit to those whose foundation can be carefully
inspected. It is very desirable that all corporations
dealing in credit should be subject to the strictest examination
by a public officer.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Short credits vs. hard times.</hi>&mdash;More important than
legal enactments are the business habits of a community,
and these can be cultivated by business men.
Farmers, of all classes of people, can foster such customs
of careful inspection of business standing and
frequent settlement of accounts and careful loaning as
will make a panic less possible. They need, however, a
wider acquaintance with the machinery of business and
a firmer faith in the advantage to all concerned of cash
payments and absolute promptness in all settlements.
The moral power of such a body, amounting to one-half
the population, most of whom are solid owners
of property, would, if well informed and united in
principle, check most of the extravagances in expenditure
<pb n='179'/><anchor id='Pg179'/>
and investment which waste the capital of the
country.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Bankruptcy.</hi>&mdash;In closing the discussion of hard times,
it is proper to mention a device for removing in part the
discouragement of debts where ability to pay is entirely
wanting. Of course, a settlement between debtor and
creditors, in which the property of the debtor is divided
among his creditors, is always available, leaving both at
liberty to begin business anew with a knowledge of the
worst that can happen. It seems possible to contrive
bankruptcy laws in such shape as to secure a fair settlement
of insolvent business whenever the business is
evidently failing. If discovery of fraud or misrepresentation
could cause immediate intervention in a bankruptcy
court, the surest possible check would be brought
to bear upon improper credits. It is certainly to the
interest of all honest creditors and debtors that a fair
settlement should be reached as early after insolvency as
possible. Such bankrupt laws should be as wide reaching
in their uniformity as government permits. If a
national bankrupt law is not sufficient, the states should
combine to establish in each the same general system.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='180'/><anchor id='Pg180'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XIII. Technical Division Of Labor.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Economy of minute division.</hi>&mdash;The advantages, limits
and disadvantages of minute division of labor are
worthy of a more careful discussion, since they bear
upon every kind of enterprise and all classes of labor.
A large part of the century's progress in manufacture,
and especially the development of machinery in production,
has grown out of the extension of this principle of
division. An analysis of the particulars by which great
saving is made in the cost of production will help us not
only to understand the facts better, but to extend the
principle in various directions. In the outset it implies
the united effort of several workmen in succession and
in close combination upon a single product. It is said
that a pocket knife, which we buy for fifty cents, has involved
in its manufacture the services of seventy-two
different persons, doing different things. The perfection
of its finish depends upon the perfection of each of
these persons in his single act. The cheapness depends
upon the readiness with which each act is performed,
and the utility of every kind of power employed.
</p>

<p>
A good illustration of division of labor may be found
in the process of butchering hogs in a large packing
house. The live hogs enter the building in the upper
<pb n='181'/><anchor id='Pg181'/>
story, while able to carry themselves on their own feet.
Their weight then moves them easily on through all
the stages of the process. Two men catch the hogs by
hooking a short chain about the hind leg and slipping
it into the notch of an endless chain power, which hoists
them to the carrier, a continuous track upon which a
roller attached to the chain may easily move. A single
man wields the knife which sticks the hogs. Two men
are sufficient to manage the scalding trough. One
directs the machine through which the body of each hog
is jerked to remove by brushes the mass of hair. Four,
perhaps, may handle scrapers as the hogs are dropped
upon a platform, and six more may use the shaving
knives by which every particle of hair is removed. Two
are needed with different tools for beheading; and one
makes place for the gambrel. Two remove the feet at
opposite ends, three with different implements are
needed in removing entrails, two are required to halve
the body, while another gives it the final washing. The
result is that each hog has passed from the pen to the
cooling room in less than ten minutes, and the hogs pass
under the hands of these several men at the rate of eight
a minute. Each man uses but one tool in one particular
spot, and repeats that single act constantly. By a
similar division of labor eighteen men are employed in
skinning a single beef, a different knife being used for
each particular part of the body, and all pass in regular
routine over the ten or twelve beeves undergoing the operation.
The rapidity of this motion can scarcely be
conceived by one who has witnessed simply the butchering
upon a farm. All this is due to a minute division
<pb n='182'/><anchor id='Pg182'/>
of labor into as many tasks as there are different operations,
each man having, if possible, but one distinct
kind of motion. The saving is not only shown in the
increased quantity of work, but in the uniform quality
as well. All the workmanship is essentially perfect.
These advantages appear more strikingly in the manufacturing
arts, where the so-called factory system has
brought division of labor to perfection.
</p>

<p>
A brief analysis of the advantages, limitations and
disadvantages is worth our study, because of their possible
application to farm industry. So far they have been
felt chiefly in contributory manufactures of farm machinery,
facilities for transportation, with all attending
manufacture, and the factories consuming raw materials
furnished from the farms. They apply equally well
where division of labor is profitable in farm operations.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Extra efficiency of labor.</hi>&mdash;Most obvious advantage is
seen in the saving of the time of a laborer, both in
learning the essential parts of his work, so that apprenticeship
is shortened to one-tenth or one-twentieth of
the time required for a full trade, and in the far greater
dexterity with which he works without change of tools
or change of location or distraction of attention. Thus
a raw hand in the course of a few months performs his
single task more rapidly and more perfectly than an
expert workman who must know and practice all the
parts of the business. While such a hand can scarcely
be called skilled in a technical sense, in the narrow
application of skill to one action he may be more perfect
than any skilled workman. The fact that each
man's work passes immediately under the inspection of
<pb n='183'/><anchor id='Pg183'/>
another, whose motion must exactly correspond in time
and adjustment, makes any costly oversight in the shape
of executive labor very much less, since every step in
the process tests every other step. It is also found that
minute attention to a single detail tends toward the
highest improvement by invention of every tool and
machine employed.
</p>

<p>
While this system is not likely to foster the inventive
spirit which brings out entirely new principles in
machinery, because the work grows easy by familiarity,
it does make the workmen quick to invent the little
devices that perfect such machines. A broader culture
and more general training discovers the difficulties and
devises the entirely new method: the worker hits upon
improvements. Watt invented the steam engine, but a
lazy boy employed to move the valve hit upon the
automatic movement.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Increased efficiency of capital.</hi>&mdash;The efficiency of
capital in production is greatly increased by minute
division of labor. The shop room required for each
man is reduced to the minimum space for himself and
his material. His tools, while the most perfect possible,
are the fewest possible.
</p>

<p>
The machinery and motive power are used to their
utmost capacity constantly, and the economy of larger
engines and machines is well known. Possibly one-fifth
of the power required to move all the machines used by
ten men working as independent tradesmen would
provide better motion, more constant and cheaper, for
the ten working together under division of labor. The
waste in starting and stopping of machinery is almost
<pb n='184'/><anchor id='Pg184'/>
entirely avoided, and the condition of the machine for
doing its work well is kept up to the best. A most
important saving is in diminution of waste. The
shortened apprenticeship and the superior dexterity
make waste from blunders almost nothing. Still more
noticeable is the saving from any waste of superior
abilities, either strength or judgment, upon actions
requiring little ability.
</p>

<p>
Under minute division of labor a strong man is kept
where he is needed and the child may serve where his
powers are sufficient. The efficiency of women is
recognized wherever applicable, and all the workers
have their full abilities made constantly useful. Moreover,
the circulating capital represented in the raw
materials is kept in use much less time than under the
less effective system. Since any article of manufacture
passes through all the operations upon it in very much
less time, the interest upon capital employed in holding
the material and in supporting the labor during its
changes is indefinitely less. The quicker returns from
this more rapid manufacture are everywhere recognized.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Limits of division.</hi>&mdash;With all its advantages, division
of labor is limited by circumstances. It can never be
applied where, because of poor roads or peculiarities of
temper or habit of life, the workers are naturally
separated. The necessary isolation of the farmers for
the sake of space makes any combination for the sake
of economy in dividing their tasks almost impracticable.
Even where farms are small, few advantages from
division of labor by different kinds of work can be
adopted. The farmers are too far apart to work directly
<pb n='185'/><anchor id='Pg185'/>
into each other's hands. It is limited, too, by the
natural demand for the products of labor. If the labor
of one man can supply all need of iron work in his community,
there is no possibility of employing ten, even
with a hundred times the effectiveness. This is well
illustrated in the country store, which sells everything
over the same counter. Not even the grocery department
can be separated until the demand is sufficient to
support two store-keepers in two stores.
</p>

<p>
But even in places where division of labor is stimulated
by demand, it can go no further than the number
of distinct motions required in carrying through the
manufacture of the article made. Indeed, economy
requires that each motion should make a complete
round, so that the work begins and ends for each
worker with everything in the same position. The
exception is when a motion with great exertion requires
an interval of rest before a second. Two men with a
cross-cut saw, although their motions are alike, do more
than twice as much as one man, because of the relief in
pushing back the saw.
</p>

<p>
A most important limit, however, is made by the
inconstancy of natural forces employed in any industry.
This is notable in all the processes of agriculture. No
matter how many workers combine in raising field
crops, they can gain but few advantages from dividing
their tasks minutely. Each laborer must be employed
through the year, and the change of seasons requires
that he be ready for all the operations of the different
seasons in planting and tilling and gathering through
all the succession. Ordinary changes of weather, cold
<pb n='186'/><anchor id='Pg186'/>
or hot, wet or dry, windy or calm, make necessary
changes in his labor. The uncertainties of each year as
to moisture and heat require a variety of ventures, so
that no farmer dares confine himself to raising but a
single crop. Even under the most favorable conditions
the different stages of growth are so intimately related
that the watchfulness of the same interested manager is
required at every stage. A delicate plant must be
carried delicately, even in transplanting. More important
still are the conditions of fertility, which make a
rotation of crops and even mixed farming essential to
highest productiveness. If each field must have its
definite series of cropping and tillage, together with the
application of animal manures, the advantage of these
combined operations under the oversight and labor of a
single farmer outweighs the advantage of more perfect
division of labor.
</p>

<p>
The result of all these limitations, so obvious in agriculture,
is that farm work is but slightly more effective
or more continuous than it was hundreds of years since.
While improved machinery has immensely reduced the
cost of certain processes, a year's labor involves innumerable
changes of employment, so that no farmer inquires,
in hiring his help, for an expert in any direction,
but wants a man of all work whose skill is largely ingenuity
in adjusting himself to the constantly changing
duties.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Suggestions of fuller division of farm labor.</hi>&mdash;It seems
possible, with the improved condition of agriculture and
the nearness of ready markets, to attempt a larger use of
division of labor in several directions. A group of
<pb n='187'/><anchor id='Pg187'/>
farmers, well acquainted with the possible advantages,
may classify their farms as grain farms, dairy farms,
breeding farms, feeding farms and market-gardens.
Such a community of interests would find not only the
advantages of exchange between each other, as well
as the rest of the world, but would soon build up bodies
of expert young men in the several specialties, whose
work would be at a premium everywhere.
</p>

<p>
With these interests recognized, still greater division
of labor is possible. An expert in the care of trees and
prevention of diseases to fruits and vegetables can
quickly find employment, and may perfect himself in
all the requirements of successive seasons. A dairy expert
may find use for his superior knowledge and skill on
successive tours among the dairy farms. Every farm
large enough to employ several men gains some of the
advantages of division by making each man responsible
for a definite part of the farm work. The less the workmen
are handled in gangs, the better each one's abilities
can be trained to meet his responsibilities. These
possibilities are greatly increased by every device for
diminishing the effect of weather changes. Under-drainage
gives large advantages in this direction from lengthening
the time during which the same operation can go
forward. Means of protecting crops in the field serve a
similar end.
</p>

<p>
Perhaps the easiest application to be made in any
neighborhood is a system of marketing, through keeping
an expert collector and distributor of produce busy in a
limited region. All the waste of articles too few to be
carried to market is practically saved, and constant
<pb n='188'/><anchor id='Pg188'/>
association with the markets of the world is made possible.
Especially is this applicable to small fruits, milk,
butter and eggs. If this market wagon can also serve
to carry the daily mail for all the neighborhood, the
problem of rural delivery would be almost solved with a
trifling expense. Even where such a measure is not
possible, neighboring farmers may approach such results
by combining for market and mail days in a circle, each
taking a different day of the week when he will do his
neighbor's errands.
</p>

<p>
With increased confidence in mutual interests, it seems
possible that specialists in various directions might grow
up among a united circle of farmers. The use of machinery
and blooded stock can certainly be greatly increased
by careful adjustment of interests. Great improvements
in seed and in methods of culture may be
discovered by agreement among a body of farmers that
certain individuals shall make a specialty of those improvements.
It is even conceivable that a rotation of
crops might be carried on upon a dozen farms, while each
farmer gives his attention to his specialty. It would
require, of course, a much closer combination in credit
with each other than has yet been found among farmers.
At the very best, however, farming must still remain the
most prominent illustration of limitation in the application
of the great labor saving and capital saving by minute
division of labor.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Disadvantages of extreme division.</hi>&mdash;The great addition
to wealth so distinctly traced to division of labor is
not gained without some disadvantages to the community.
Almost certainly the inactivity of body compelled
<pb n='189'/><anchor id='Pg189'/>
by confinement to a simple portion of a trade induces
physical weakness. The health of workers in
factories is often uncertain, and the average of life is
known to be reduced. While steadiness of employment
contributes to steady habits, the reduced activity contributes
to weakness. Perhaps even more perceptible is
the tendency toward narrowness of mind. Ingenuity is
developed in the <q>Jack of all trades,</q> although his
information in regard to each one may be limited. The
man who knows all about a very small part of one trade
has little to stimulate his mind to exertion. Indeed,
habit is liable to make his very action and judgment
purely automatic. The fact that the raw hand can be
quickly made effective makes the stimulation to self-education
even less than in ordinary circumstances. The
constant dependence of each laborer upon the routine of
his work and his absolute dependence upon authority for
his employment lead naturally to lack of self-control.
A man may grow almost like the machine he handles,
responding only to the demand of his overseer. These
tendencies foster also a growth of class distinctions.
Such workmen are thought of as operatives, held in a
class by themselves. They may be expected to know
little of the interests of community outside their own
circle, and are often distrusted in matters of common
welfare. They themselves distrust the leadership of
those upon whose management they depend for employment.
</p>

<p>
All these disadvantages may be overcome by more
community of interest among workers of all classes for
their comfort and improvement outside their tasks. It
<pb n='190'/><anchor id='Pg190'/>
is a fact that associations for the advancement of
workers in social and political freedom and mutual self-support
have grown most rapidly in the neighborhood
of factories, where division of labor is extreme. A
truly philanthropic spirit may be in entire agreement
with the massing of labor for greatest accomplishment.
The places of least development are always found where
crowds of laborers work in mere gangs or wholly unorganized.
The wholesome influences surrounding rural
life are everywhere granted so far as physical development
goes. They may also be granted in communities
of general enterprise with reference to ready ingenuity
and judgment. The farmer's boys moving to the cities
carry not only physical strength and endurance but a
mental capacity for ready adaptation to emergencies
which develops into wisdom. The majority of leaders
in great enterprises are still expected to grow up on
the farm. This is undoubtedly in part due to the impossibility
of cramping by extreme division of labor.
At the same time a partial application of its principles
is needed to bring leisure for some general culture and
larger acquaintance with the progress of the world. As
the evils of factory life can be cured by attention, so the
weaknesses of rural life can be removed by a careful
study of its needs. True education in both quarters is
essential as a means of mutual understanding and adjustment
of interests.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='191'/><anchor id='Pg191'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XIV. Aggregation Of Industry.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Great combinations.</hi>&mdash;The tendency toward improvement
by combination of laborers through the possibilities
of division of labor leads to still larger combinations
in so-called factory systems, and even to a combination
of factories in large corporations. This tendency has
been especially marked since the multiplication of labor-saving
machines and more perfect systems of transportation.
Indeed, the possibility of extensive machine
using, as well as extended division of labor, rests upon
a combination of many forces under one general management.
Beyond these advantages, saving is found in
the necessary care for waste products, which often may
be turned into profit, greater freedom of action from
closer community of interests, greatly enlarged facilities
for marketing, and the best possible devices for handling
and transporting products.
</p>

<p>
All these advantages in great establishments are
readily perceived, yet some have doubted whether the
gains are so distributed as actually to increase the general
welfare. Farmers, perhaps, as readily as any persons,
distrust the power of great corporations. Wage
earners, generally, in the expression, <q>corporations have
no souls,</q> express their distrust of results. Yet so far
<pb n='192'/><anchor id='Pg192'/>
as they actually introduce improvement in production so
that variety of products is increased and the cost of
production reduced, the whole community gains in large
measure the total saving. Any one can realize the advantage
by study of a single article of every-day use.
In the middle ages the cloth in a garment was worth
eight times the wool from which it was made. Now the
value is chiefly in the raw product. The price of iron
affects every farmer through the cost of his tools and
implements or the quality of either. Compare the
modern steel hoe, first in quality and then in cost, with
the hoe of fifty years since. Then measure that cost in
its relation to a day's work, as compared with the same
measure in 1850. All are in this way benefited by reducing
the exertion needed to procure any one article of
use, since more exertion may be left for meeting other
wants. If machinery and improved methods have entered
less into the farmer's home life, he can find his own
advantage from the range of such improvements in other
directions by thinking what a pound of butter will buy
for him today as compared with what it would buy before
the period of machinery. (Chart No. <ref target='Chart_XIV'>XIV</ref>,
p. <ref target='Pg106'>106</ref>.)
</p>

<p>
The introduction of labor-saving machines is a direct
addition to human power and economy of time, and a
means of converting useless material to meet human
wants. That a new machine throws out of employment
workers in that particular field brings a hardship which
ought to be shared by the multitude who are benefited;
but the probabilities are great that the improved method
of manufacture will so increase the uses for the product
as to bring into employment a far larger number of
<pb n='193'/><anchor id='Pg193'/>
laborers. The spinning jenny threw out of employment
several thousand spinners in the old way, but in twenty-five
years the cloth-makers in England had increased
from less than eight thousand to three hundred and
twenty thousand. The machines which in 1760 were
thought to have ruined some eight thousand cloth-makers,
in 1833 employed two million persons. This is
only a striking illustration of what has happened in
every direction. It is perfectly evident that communities
using the most machinery pay larger wages and far
larger welfare to every laborer. It is not too much to
say that the actual comforts within the reach of every
laborer have been more than doubled within the last
hundred years.
</p>

<p>
A few illustrations of the actual saving in cost of
production and distribution may be interesting. Complicated
machinery can never be used in producing upon
a small scale, just as a small farmer can never afford the
use of a harvester. All the benefits of invention applied
to machinery have come through its use on a large scale.
A factory making a thousand pairs of shoes each year
cannot use such machinery as the one making a million
pairs will need. Each one of the million pairs, therefore,
costs the world less than each one of the thousand pairs.
Again the large establishment, like an immense saw mill,
being obliged to care for its sawdust, may devise a way
of making this waste product of use in pressed blocks
for kindling, or possibly in buttons or wood ornaments.
The waste of the shoe shop is only a nuisance, but the
waste of a great shoe factory is ground and pressed
into all sorts of useful forms. All such saving of
<pb n='194'/><anchor id='Pg194'/>
waste is so much added to the world's store of
wealth.
</p>

<p>
That the large establishment saves unnecessary friction
is shown in the order of any great mercantile establishment.
It is still more noticeable in immense iron works
separated from every other form of industry for the sake
of freedom of motion. In these ways, principally, there
is a saving of labor in the huge department stores, although
the facilities for advertising, advantages for
transportation in large bulk and the employment of expert
salesmen in every department contribute to the same
result. The general expenses of an ordinary store are
estimated at nearly 40 per cent of the difference between
wholesale and retail prices. The same expenses in the
great coperative store at Paris, the Bon March, are
only 14 per cent. While the controllers of capital in the
large enterprises have the first advantage of such saving,
the very necessities of their business compel a sharing
with their employs and with the public.
</p>

<p>
Even the so-called trusts, supposed to be contrivances
for controlling the market, have really served in many
instances the welfare of the whole community. A biscuit
trust, in handling the most of the crackers in the market,
saves great expense of advertising, a still greater expense
in sales by traveling salesmen, or drummers, and immense
waste of stock on hand through condensation into
fewer warehouses, reduces its insurance to actual cost,
and has brought to the public by means of all these savings
a greater variety of crackers of almost uniform
quality suited to the fluctuations of demand at a reduced
price. No one doubts that even the Standard Oil Company,
<pb n='195'/><anchor id='Pg195'/>
by means of its savings through consolidation, has
at the same time preserved the general supply of oil
from waste and brought it to every man's door, with a
great improvement in quality, comparative safety in use,
and an almost constantly diminishing price.
</p>

<p>
The record of facts shows that with all the tendency
to great aggregations, and so to concentration of power,
masses of wage-earners have had their hours of labor
shortened, have gained facilities for culture in libraries,
lectures and voluntary associations, have gained habits
more systematic, and regular methods of life with
greater constancy of employment, have better protection
of civil rights, better provision for education of children,
a larger insurance against accident, and a better provision
for hospital care when disabled. The same system
has provided methods for economical use of savings in
joint stock companies, and cultivated a general unity of
purpose and appreciation of others' welfare. Withal it has
given to the mothers of families an immense increase of
leisure for home-making, and at the same time has opened
ranges of employment for women without homes. Even
the rate of wages has not been diminished, but rather increased,
as is shown also by actual records. That the
great establishments cannot pay less than average rates
is evident from the multitudes seeking to enter their employment.
Moreover, they must pay their workmen regularly
or appear bankrupt. Employers on a small scale
can easily postpone upon all sorts of pretences, and failures
are frequent. Suppose the distribution of milk in
New York city were under a single management. A systematic
division of territory would at once reduce the
<pb n='196'/><anchor id='Pg196'/>
number of milk wagons by at least one-half. The certainty
of responsibility would insure uniform purity, and
means of transportation could be brought to perfection,
so that the amount now delivered would actually cost
perhaps not more than two-thirds the present price.
While at present prices the profit would be large, the
necessity for investing those profits would at once call
for extension of the trade by reducing the price, and at
the same time increasing the proceeds to farmers somewhere
who furnish the larger supply. The better quality
and larger quantity for the same money would certainly
increase the demand, and probably with direct benefit to
the milk-raisers. The essential element of distrust of
individual management in large enterprises as to fair
distribution of the profits stands in the way of such a
combination.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Limits to aggregation.</hi>&mdash;It is easy to see that the
advantages of great establishments cannot always be
gained. The limits of demand restrict the possibility of
profit in supply. The element of space in connection
with the market and in relation to the buyers makes an
important limit. Special advantages of location on a
small scale may outweigh the advantages of aggregation.
Utilization of forces in nature, like pure water or
water power, or special qualities of raw materials, may
outweigh all other considerations. In general the
requirement of interested oversight in a single superintendent
has checked such growth. The more perfect,
however, the system of management, the less effective is
such a limitation. It is possible with extreme division
of labor to make distinct rules take the place of personal
<pb n='197'/><anchor id='Pg197'/>
direction, and oversight is reduced to a minimum.
All these limitations serve to check the too rapid
growth of this factory system and to hold in check the
tendency to misuse of power in possible monopolies.
Any raising of prices which diminishes the demand
destroys the advantage of a great combination. It
makes its profits by the quantity of its products sold.
A reduction of the quantity much more certainly than a
reduction in price destroys the advantage. Hence a
monopoly gained in the ordinary progress of trade can
seldom operate for any long time to advance prices,
though it may destroy the competition of smaller establishments
completely.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Disadvantages of aggregation.</hi>&mdash;It is impossible to
overlook a considerable number of disadvantages to the
welfare of a community in a too rapid aggregation of
its industrial enterprises. It changes large numbers of
laborers from independent workers to wage earners,
and thus makes them a part of the great machine, with
an immense momentum in production which does not so
readily yield to the fluctuations of demand. An independent
worker is not worried if he has a leisure day.
The great establishment cannot adjust its machinery to
a lessened demand without a uniformity of reduction in
wages or time of employment, or else the discharge of
numbers of employs. This is one of the causes of
over-production so evident in certain directions upon
the coming of financial crises. Another great disadvantage
is seen in the breakdown of any such enterprise.
Then its employs, trained for its particular
uses, find themselves not only without employment, but
<pb n='198'/><anchor id='Pg198'/>
unfitted to drop into other niches of usefulness. The
absolute routine of the great establishment so fixes
habits as to make very difficult a change of work
except in line of promotion in a similar organization.
The dissatisfaction and distress from such absence of
employment is more apparent than in ordinary poverty.
</p>

<p>
The strongest objections, however, to the great
aggregations are found in the possibility of oppression
through a monopoly of business, and therefore almost
absolute control by a few persons of the interests not
only of a large body of employs, but of every competitor
upon a smaller scale. A large combination practically
compels all to yield to its methods. The certain
economy of methods has led to the statement, <q>Where
combination is possible, competition ceases.</q> The common
saying, <q>Competition is the life of trade,</q> becomes
untrue whenever that competition implies a costly service.
Competition is supposed to reduce cost by stimulating
energy and ingenuity. But when that ingenuity
can be better applied in combination, the result is the
destruction of competition. Competition may drive the
milk wagon faster, but combination will deliver more
quarts of milk in the same time. The natural opposition
to combination rests upon the same ground as the
opposition to improved machinery. It certainly throws
out of their ordinary employment a considerable number
of independent workers.
</p>

<p>
This power of the combination is a constant temptation
to unscrupulous and grasping managers to increase
their advantage by vicious discrimination and false competition,
expecting the destruction of others' business to
<pb n='199'/><anchor id='Pg199'/>
increase their own. The largeness of the operation
makes more plain the injustice of the maxim, <q>All is
fair in trade.</q> The final dangers of combination are
thus likely to be overestimated. It is not true that any
larger proportion of false methods of business enters
into the large establishment than into the small, and
the possibility of profit in a great combination is quite
as truly dependent upon the universal welfare as anywhere.
The same extremes of prices mark the range
for these establishments as for any others. The price
cannot continue higher than buyers will pay with an
increasing disposition to buy more. It cannot remain
lower, of course, than will enable sellers to continue
living as well as in any other business. Checks upon
increased price come as certainly from substitutes as
from rival production, and the ability of the people will
always gauge the amount of sales. The expression
<q>What the trade will bear,</q> means a price such as not to
diminish consumption. Indeed, the business principles
of a great trust are essentially the same as those in any
single manufactory. A trust which stops the work of
certain factories in a combination for the sake of diminishing
the output, because of danger to prices from too
rapid production, follows the same principle as a farmer
who stops raising wheat from the probability of too
much wheat in the market. The farmer would better
lose the use of his land for a time than lose the
advantage of both land and labor by over-production of
wheat. In the same way a trust may wisely hold its
fixed capital unproductive till the consumption of the
community reaches the full extent of its power to
<pb n='200'/><anchor id='Pg200'/>
produce. The power of one combination to interfere
with the workings of another by indirect methods, like
investment in the other's stock, is an evil to be treated
like any fraud. Laws and courts are in the power of
the people, and should preserve the rights of all.
</p>

<p>
One great danger of large combinations is the
tendency to govern by iron rule instead of by fair judgment
of individual cases. This is a difficulty always
connected with great enterprises, to be cured as growth
advances through establishing well trained experts
whose judgment makes the rules not only good in
themselves, but well executed. The government itself
is subject to the same difficulty, as seen in the handling
of an army, and is obliged to meet it in the same way.
Even the abuses often referred to from enormous difference
of wages between the executive officers and the
inferior operatives are quite possibly only a natural
method for solving these difficulties. A first-class
officer has no difficulty with his men. In general those
institutions whose management is costly do better for
their workmen than the weaker institutions with weaker
men at the head.
</p>

<p>
The supposed dangers from too rapid improvement
in the machinery of production are scarcely to be credited
in the light of improvements during the last hundred
years. Every improvement has certainly given a
larger enjoyment and better employment to the masses
of people. The enterprise which invents better ways of
accomplishing anything is the best possible means for
enlarging and stimulating the wants and abilities of the
whole people. The very profits themselves are sure to
<pb n='201'/><anchor id='Pg201'/>
awaken larger enterprise, and even if the accumulated
surplus is distributed in so-called watered stock, it does
not cease to promote production. The wider the distribution
of stock, the more permanent and more generally
satisfactory is the working of the great combination.
If employs themselves become sharers in the
business, the true interests of all are likely to be promoted.
When the savings of the multitude can be
perfectly united in a joint stock company, to furnish
the capital with which the same people work, the general
conditions of wealth production for all the community
are fairly met.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Bonanza farms.</hi>&mdash;An illustration of some effects of
aggregation may be seen in the enormous farms of the
wheat regions of America. There machinery is introduced
as far as possible, all work is methodically
planned and executed, and wholesale rates in purchases
and in transportation are secured. The result is that
certain staple products, especially wheat, are raised at a
cost far below the average cost to moderate farmers.
The result is large profits upon the capital invested, in
spite of the fact that such farms do not make best use
of soil fertility and certainly do not maintain the best
condition of soil for future use. This, however, is due
rather to the nature of pioneer farming, which makes
immediate use of the powers of the soil, than to the
nature of the management. It is conceivable that the
same ingenuity may continue the development of large
farms under greatly improved agriculture. In that
case the general effect will be much more widely felt
than now. So far it seems that bonanza farming is
<pb n='202'/><anchor id='Pg202'/>
confined to a very few lines of production, where everything
is bent in the direction of lessening labor instead
of benefiting the soil or making homes.
</p>

<p>
There is no question as to the general advantage of
small farms in making farm homes. It is a question
whether the general improvements in agriculture, except
in machinery and its use, have not come from the diligent
ingenuity of the small farmer in making most of his own
acres. Ben Franklin said, <q>The best manure for the farm
is the foot of its owner.</q> The interested constancy
among small farmers certainly develops both character
and ability in any country. This fact has probably been
one reason for the small farms of large parts of Europe.
One-third of France is cultivated by owners of farms
averaging 7- acres. Four-fifths of Bavaria, Belgium
and Switzerland are in farms of less than twelve acres.
Even Prussia has 900,000 farms of less than four acres.
These farms vary in quality from poorest to richest, and
peasant farmers are not able to boast of their wealth.
Yet some of the most fertile regions are made so and kept
so by the labor employed upon the small farm. Some of
them also involve large capital. The Isle of Jersey,
where land is worth $1,000 an acre, is so divided that
an average farm is eight acres. Of course, but little
labor-saving machinery reaches these places. Tillage
with the spade costs five times as much as tillage by
plough; yet the small farmer finds such advantage from
its use as to call it gold mining. It is probable that the
strong competition of immense farms in grain raising,
possibly also in sugar raising from either cane or beets,
and in seed raising, will awaken among the smaller
<pb n='203'/><anchor id='Pg203'/>
farmers attention to finer grades of farming and more
care for the fertility of their fewer acres.
</p>

<p>
On the whole, the tendency with increasing population
is toward smaller farms with more intensive farming.
Whether our country, with its stronger commercial
energy, will follow this tendency as exhibited in
northern Europe seems doubtful. It is not likely that
we shall ever admit the legal restrictions under which
division and subdivision have made their way in that
region. The question will doubtless be settled by economic
conditions independent of legislation. At present
we are far from either extreme, as can be seen by
reference to Chart No. <ref target='Chart_I'>I</ref>, p.
<ref target='Pg009'>9</ref>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Department stores.</hi>&mdash;Increasing application of the
principles of aggregation is seen in the so-called department
stores, which not only deal in everything but with
everybody, extending their trade by mail over large territory.
The very evident economy of such aggregation
of capital for purposes of exchange appeals so directly
to the customers as to make the sufferers in competition
cry out in vain for restrictions. Such stores seem sure
to maintain their advantage in exchange, except with
reference to mere local distribution of every-day necessities
and expert handling of specialties. The community
does well to give attention not so much to
restrictions upon this trade as to reduction of opportunity
for abuse of power over the mass of employs
under control. The great establishment will certainly
bring more satisfactory conditions in time than the
multitude of small ones beyond the reach of public
inspection.
</p>

<pb n='204'/><anchor id='Pg204'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Trusts.</hi>&mdash;Of late years the advance of combination
in so-called trusts has been enormous. The underlying
principles of economy already illustrated furnish
the occasion for such combinations, but the immediate
advantage to promoters of such enterprises, because of
the supposed power in control of the market, is found
in the speculative interest in stocks. In this respect
the multiplication of trusts will furnish the principal
weapon against them. Yet the dangers to the
industry of the country, as well as to the safety of exchanges,
from such rapid consolidation of management
are easily perceived. It is certainly necessary that responsibility
for such enterprises be definitely fixed upon
the share-holders. And it is more than probable that
government inspection of such business may become as
necessary as it now is of the banking systems of our
country. Some students of the subject foresee a final
assumption of absolute control by the government of all
industrial enterprises as a result of this tendency to aggregation.
The question cannot be discussed in this
connection, since it involves a wider range of welfare
than can be considered under production.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Possible combinations for farming.</hi>&mdash;It is proper to
close this chapter with suggestions as to the possibility
of gaining the advantages of combination for farming
communities without disturbing the present condition of
ownership of land. When our farmers generally shall have
outgrown the disposition to make money by emigration, so
that each farming community is made up of farm homes
with a stable population, more intimate associations for
farm operations than now are possible ought to become
<pb n='205'/><anchor id='Pg205'/>
the rule. Suggestions have already been made as to the
possibilities of greater division of labor, but other advantages
of combination in the way of labor saving can certainly
be secured. More definite business methods and
mutual confidence in a neighborhood of farmers make
possible enormous economies in the way of mutual protection
and advantage. The removal of fences, with
possible combination in seeding and tillage, a universal
method of dealing with insects, blights, rusts and similar
plant diseases, the handling of products in company, and
above all a perfect sympathy in all methods of improvement,
education and development of enterprise, will accomplish
wonders.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='206'/><anchor id='Pg206'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XV. Special Incentives To Production.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Good government chief.</hi>&mdash;The productive energy of
any country is encouraged chiefly by what we call good
government. This means especially security of property
rights by prevention of frauds and robbery of every
kind, and free interchange of ideas, as well as of products
of industry, and general public intelligence. It
is not enough that individuals throughout a community
be fairly intelligent, but they must have sufficiently
mutual ground of intelligence in common purposes and
common interests in everyday work to bring without
effort a perfectly mutual confidence. Where these essentials
are absent no devices can operate extensively for
the encouragement of energy in production. Where
they are present it is always possible to add extra
incentives, to give direction at least to the energies of
the people, and perhaps to increase those energies.
Some of these incentives are too important to be overlooked.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Premiums.</hi>&mdash;The most simple means of encouraging
enterprise is found in premiums of various kinds offered
by individuals, local societies or municipal authority.
These operate by adding to the natural advantage of
energetic labor some special reward in recognition of its
<pb n='207'/><anchor id='Pg207'/>
accomplishment. Illustrations are familiar in connection
with so-called fairs of all kinds where prizes are
distributed for the largest product of a kind, the most
profitable crop, the best article for any purpose, the
greatest variety of crops or stock, or for any conceivable
device which seems to add to the producing power
of the community. Governments often offer premiums
for plans of public buildings, and sometimes for offensive
weapons. All of these operate upon the one
principle of arousing special energy by superior advantage
given to the successful competitor. Its advantages
are evident. Its disadvantages sometimes outweigh advantages.
It encourages somewhat the spirit of gambling,
resulting in devices for winning the prize through
false representation. It exaggerates the importance of
showy qualities for the sake of notoriety, and it fosters
those jealousies which too constantly interfere with
the welfare of communities.
</p>

<p>
Both advantages and disadvantages are well illustrated
in agricultural fairs. These have proved a most
admirable stimulant to better agriculture, where clear-headed,
intelligent judges have judiciously distributed
prizes of such a nature as to have their chief use in
establishing the quality of the product shown without
catering too distinctly for the enthusiasm of the crowd
or for individual profit. The chief end of all such
incentives is rightly found in the educational influence
from comparison of products and the establishment
of standards which the whole mass of the people may
be led to accept.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Bounties.</hi>&mdash;A less common but extensively used incentive
<pb n='208'/><anchor id='Pg208'/>
is in bounties. These are advantages of various
kinds, frequently in money, given by local or general
authority for peculiar services or special enterprises. A
familiar illustration is seen in the bounty of late years
offered by different states for the production of sugar,
especially sugar from beets or from sorghum. The
object is evidently to arouse the energies of a community
in a special direction, with the expectation that the
establishment of a new industry will, in the nature of
exchange, promote the welfare of all. Some countries
have stimulated foreign exchange by a bounty upon
exports, such as Germany now pays upon the beet sugar
exported to other countries. Of the same nature are the
gifts made by local communities for the establishment of
mills, factories, railroads, irrigating ditches, all of which
are supposed to bring profit to the community in general
in much larger proportion than the special enterprises
have received. The principle is the same when bounties
are offered for the destruction of wolves, foxes and
other vermin, or when standing rewards are given for
the arrest of criminals.
</p>

<p>
There can be no question of the right of a community
to offer this extra stimulant to particular exertions, but
the wisdom is doubtful. In the first place, bounties are
liable to withdraw capital and labor from more certain
methods of production to more uncertain methods.
Indeed, the chief object of the bounty is to entice into
experiments those who would otherwise hesitate. The
advantage of the bounty is very liable to be overestimated.
People hasten in steps to secure bounty without
careful study of the business they undertake. This is
<pb n='209'/><anchor id='Pg209'/>
especially true of bounties for establishment of factories
in new locations. They attract the least experienced and
most speculative men, without consideration of the far
more important elements of immediate market and convenient
employment of labor. Railroads are built for the
bonds voted without care for future profit. Enterprises
of this kind, promoted by bounties, are especially liable
to failure. The history of development in the west gives
overwhelming evidence of their weakness. Even when
the bounty is offered for reduction of vermin, it is often
misapplied. Numerous cases are on record where the
bounty became a stimulant to enterprise in raising
the very animals to be destroyed. Even rewards for the
arrest of criminals seem sometimes to create a body of
men who thrive by fostering a criminal class, with a hope
of sometime getting a profit from arrests. As a means of
stimulating general industry they are too unstable to be
satisfactory. Most probably political parties are in constant
contention over the maintenance of the bounty. No
more insidious enemy to the purity of politics can be found
than the selfish interest aroused by special bounties.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Monopoly privileges.</hi>&mdash;Government monopolies have
been a favorite method in past ages of fostering particular
enterprises. These are in the nature of an exclusive
privilege, granted to individuals or corporations for
the manufacture or sale of particular commodities,
and occasionally for special public services. These were
once a method of showing royal favor, and the word
monopoly has in its very nature the idea of inequality.
Hence they are unpopular under all circumstances, except
when permanent and universal advantage is secured.
</p>

<pb n='210'/><anchor id='Pg210'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>License.</hi>&mdash;The monopoly of service is secured by the
issue of a license. If granted through official favoritism,
the wrong is easily appreciated; if granted to all
who conform to necessary requirements for the general
welfare, as in showing qualifications for teaching,
compounding of drugs, or practice of medicine, the
license is recognized as useful. In fact, it seems to
furnish security for satisfactory governmental service,
and is the basis of all promised reform in civil administration.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Patent and copyright.</hi>&mdash;The chief illustrations of a
genuine monopoly maintained by government authority
are found in the patent upon inventions and the copyright
upon publications. A patent is conferred upon the inventor
of <q>any new and useful art, machine, manufacture
or composition of matter, or any improvement thereof,</q>
upon proof that the invention is original, not previously
in use anywhere, and likely to be beneficial rather than
detrimental. This patent secures to the inventor the sole
right to make, use or exchange articles manufactured
after the pattern described, or upon the principle
involved in construction. This monopoly is limited
usually to a term of years supposed to be sufficient
to secure to the inventor a reward for his exertion.
The patent laws of the United States protect the
rights of an inventor for seventeen years, entitling
him to damages upon proof in the proper court of
infringement upon his patent. Such protection
extends, of course, only throughout the territory under
the same government. It may be secured, however, in
foreign nations under special regulation, so as to cover
<pb n='211'/><anchor id='Pg211'/>
the most of the civilized world. The copyright serves
the same purpose, and is limited in much the same
way, for securing to the products of thought or of
taste a proper reward for the powers exerted. It
gives to an author control over publication of his
thoughts during a period of twenty-eight years, in
order that the users of his thoughts may actually pay
what they are worth. This, too, is confined to the
limits of the government issuing it, unless by agreement
an international copyright is provided by the
laws of the several countries.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Franchises.</hi>&mdash;A still more noticeable monopoly is
granted by municipalities under what is called a
franchise for the establishment and maintenance of
water supply, public means of artificial lighting and
heating, or means of public transportation. These are
under government control usually in cities, because
they employ the public streets for carrying on the
enterprise. The franchise is really an extension of the
license in particular directions. This is usually issued
with the expectation of great public benefit from a
large investment of capital which would not be made
without relief from competition, because not immediately
profitable. The franchise usually carries with it
certain restrictions as to use of public highways and
limitation to a term of years. It necessarily involves
the right of government inspection and control for
the general welfare.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Difficulties from monopoly privileges.</hi>&mdash;All of these
monopolies are granted for the purpose of conferring
upon the whole community benefits that could not
<pb n='212'/><anchor id='Pg212'/>
otherwise be secured. They are wise only so far as
they secure this result. If the patent right system
wastes the energies of inventors in contrivance of useless
devices, there is loss; if it builds up a class of
mere speculators, there is waste; if it fosters monopoly
beyond the giving of a fair reward for invention, it is
robbery. The exact limit of time during which a
patent is good stimulates to the utmost exertion for
wide introduction of its benefits, and at the same
time prevents the burden of lasting monopoly. The
dangers are chiefly in the administration of patent
laws, from the careless issue of undeserved patents,
or in a combination under a series of patents to maintain
a constant monopoly. It is a safe rule to issue
patents only for particular applications of scientific
principles and not for the discovery of the principle,
which can be protected in publication by copyright.
Departures from this rule cut off the possibility of
more perfect contrivances and fair competition in devices
and methods. There can be no question of the
general advantage of protecting a genuine inventor
from the trespass of others to secure him a fair compensation.
No other plan for a fair exchange of such
services has even been suggested. The unsettled question
is the proper limit of time for a patent to run.
</p>

<p>
The advantages and disadvantages of copyright are
essentially the same in character, though the dangers
are less. Since the large part of the reward of an
author or an artist is in the repute he may secure, there
is little danger of fostering an unfair spirit of monopoly.
The franchise is subject to the same principles,
<pb n='213'/><anchor id='Pg213'/>
but its dangers in practice are very great. So
long as the advantages to the corporation securing the
franchise may be enormous, if it is sufficiently extended,
there is great temptation to bribery, both in the
original issue and in the maintenance of inspection and
municipal control. Nothing has so interfered with good
government of cities as the manipulation of franchises.
These abuses underlie the popular call for municipal
ownership of water works, lighting plants and street
railways.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Protective duties.</hi>&mdash;A still more widely extended
method of stimulating industry by special incentives is
seen in what is called a protective tariff. This is a system
of duties upon articles produced in foreign countries
so levied as to check the natural competition by
increasing their cost to consumers. The increased cost
of such articles, if not too great to destroy the demand,
increases the incentive to manufacture similar articles
within the country.
</p>

<p>
The schedule of tariffs becomes then a very important
element in all productive industry, and requires
the nicest adjustment to the needs and abilities of the
nation. If associated, as is usually the case, with the
raising of government revenues, the adjustment becomes
more difficult, and requires the judgment of experts
in commerce as well as in statistical knowledge
of industries and government necessities. While in
any country the existing tariff is presumed to have been
established to meet public need, the fact that there is
necessarily a restriction upon freedom of exchange
makes it always open to question. The tariff laws, like
<pb n='214'/><anchor id='Pg214'/>
all laws restricting freedom of action, must always have
evident reason for existing. The burden of proof rests
with the one who defends such laws. This is especially
true with reference to tariffs, because the trend of civilization
is certainly toward greater freedom of intercourse
in all directions. The barriers between nations
are generally giving way before the introduction of
ready transportation and quick communication. The
statesman who maintains the necessity of restrictive
tariff must always stand ready to explain this obstacle
to more complete association. For this reason we have
the constant agitation of tariff questions and the impossibility
of permanent settlement in any particular.
</p>

<p>
For the same reason there are always two phases of
a tariff discussion. The student of social science inquires
chiefly as to the tendencies of advancing society
with reference to such restriction, and, seeing the barriers
becoming less and less, is likely to seek the final
removal of every such restriction. The statesman, busied
with the immediate conditions of the limited community
whose interests he guards, is liable to be for or against
any particular restriction as it fosters or hinders those
interests. For this reason statesmen, of whatever
party, are subject to the bias of local interests, and have
even been known to change their views with a change of
such interests. In our own country, when party lines
are drawn upon the tariff, it is quite possible that sectional
lines may also mark the party supremacy. In
fact, it is possible for any man to believe in freedom
of trade as the ultimate condition to be sought, while
he favors in immediate practice restriction or even
<pb n='215'/><anchor id='Pg215'/>
prohibition by a definite tariff. The purpose in this
chapter is to give a brief outline of arguments for and
against such tariff in general, leaving entirely to practical
statesmanship the decision of special questions.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Reasons for protective tariff.</hi>&mdash;A system of restrictive
tariffs is thought to contribute to the welfare
of an entire community by artificially increasing the
natural diversity of employments. If new enterprises
can be fostered, exchanges are greatly increased, all the
advantages of exchange are secured within the country,
and the general intelligence of the people is increased.
With this comes the enormous advantage of what is
called a home market for the cruder products of industry.
This is especially to the interest of farmers
raising bulky products or those not likely to bear transportation.
It is further thought to foster a better agriculture
by a more natural return to the soil of elements
removed in cropping, the nearer body of population
making such return possible. It is also thought to
make at once available the natural resources of a country
in mines, quarries, water powers, etc., which might
otherwise long remain useless. It is contended for as
a means of checking unfair competition between a long
established community with special advantages for factory
methods, either in large accumulations of capital
or low wages of laborers, and a newer country where
capital is scarce and wages are high. It is sometimes
held to be a means of maintaining a high standard of
wages through the advantage actually conferred upon
certain lines of industry, upon a supposition that competition
at home without these favored industries would
<pb n='216'/><anchor id='Pg216'/>
reduce the wages maintained in other industries. If a
tariff on wool calls into profitable use a large amount of
farm capital in sheep raising, every wheat raiser is at
the same time benefited by reduction of competition in
the wheat market. If the capital and labor employed
are enticed from other countries, the effect is the same
by increasing the demand at home for the wheat. That
this does not operate so long as wheat raisers come to a
market where a surplus must be consumed in other
countries does not destroy the argument, since the tendency
is to reduce the surplus. The system is also
thought to encourage, in lines of industry likely to prove
productive, a rapid development of labor-saving machinery
and new methods of manufacture, which may
some time give to a nation superiority in the markets
of the world. To many there seems a much more important
reason for restrictions, in order to establish
every needed form of production for the sake of national
independence. That nation which contains
within its own borders the means of supplying all the
wants of its people is supposed to be more capable of
independent growth, and to be freed from hampering
competitions of trade, that may lead to wars and, perhaps,
to extreme suffering in case of foreign war.
</p>

<p>
For abundant examples in support of these various
propositions, appeal is made to the history of the world
by comparing countries developed under a restrictive
tariff with less developed ones free from such restrictions.
The history of our own country, under the ups
and downs of tariff legislation, is also appealed to.
Even the extra cost of certain articles to the whole
<pb n='217'/><anchor id='Pg217'/>
people, which is the sole basis of advantage to the
fostered interest, is thought to be more than compensated
by the direct advantage of increasing competition
at home, where it will have the most wholesome effect
upon the market price. Proof of this, too, is sought in
the rapid development of iron and steel manufacture,
where protective tariffs have been most persistent.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Reasons against protective tariff.</hi>&mdash;Against a system
of protective tariffs many strong arguments are not
wanting. It is contended that a tariff on iron goods, for
instance, is just so much an added burden upon all consumers
of iron, and, since the bulk of consumption
enters into the cost of articles of universal use, the
greater part of the burden is borne by the poorer
classes of people, who consume as much as the more
wealthy. If the restrictive tariff actually limits the introduction
of foreign goods, as must be the case if it acts
as a stimulant in production, the revenues received
are far from being in due proportion with the cost to the
people, since essentially the same tariff is paid by the
consumer whether the article is imported or manufactured
at home. Although it is not true that in every
instance the tariff is a tax, in so far as it benefits the
home manufacturer by advanced prices it must be. In
so far as it operates for protection of favored industries,
it certainly fails to serve the purposes of revenue. The
diversity of employment evidently fostered by tariff is
said to be unnatural and likely to continue expensive,
and any advantages of market at home are sure to be
overestimated, especially with reference to staple products
of the farm, since the surplus necessarily forming
<pb n='218'/><anchor id='Pg218'/>
a basis for prices must be sold in foreign countries
without the advantage of direct exchange for articles of
their own production. That is, if our tariff restrictions
limit the market of a foreign people, they also
limit the ability of that people to purchase the products
which we are obliged to sell them. It is contended
further that a rapid development of varied industries,
instead of maintaining soil fertility, tends to more rapid
exhaustion by making more probable the consumption
of cruder products of the farm in villages and cities too
remote for return of fertility, although within the same
country. The development of natural resources under
stimulant of a tariff is admitted by its opponents, but
represented as a waste of effort, since the tendency is to
withdraw capital and labor from more productive industries
into less productive, and that, too, at the expense
of the more productive. If factories cannot give an
equal profit with farming, it is absurd to tempt capital
away from the farms into factories. So, although
wealth may be accumulated in showy enterprises, the
people, as a whole, are less thrifty and bear unequal
burdens. It is further contended that the total labor of
the community, when a part is used in unprofitable development
of resources, is made on the whole less productive,
and therefore the people are less able to buy
their neighbors' products, and must live with diminished
comforts. In that case all the haste in developing natural
resources is actual waste.
</p>

<p>
If, on the other hand, the restrictive tariff invites
capital from abroad for the sake of gaining the trade of
a country, the diminished profit of labor in some foreign
<pb n='219'/><anchor id='Pg219'/>
country compels emigration, and such emigrants are
likely to follow the capital. Only the poorest of foreign
laborers will be compelled to help themselves by emigration,
and only those will gain by the change of location.
Thus it is said a restrictive tariff encourages the
least desirable form of immigration. This is illustrated
in the development of the mining industry
through the fostering effects of the tariff.
</p>

<p>
There can be no question that any restriction upon
trade may foster the contrivance of combination to
secure monopoly. Hence it is often claimed that the
existence of trusts is due in great measure to tariff
restrictions, preventing the competition natural in the
commercial world. It is certainly true that the restriction
of a patent right may make possible the abuses of
a trust. If trusts were confined to protected industries
or to countries maintaining protective systems, the
weight of the argument would be stronger. It is certainly
true, however, that the wider the range of competition
without restriction, the greater the protection
against combination for sake of monopoly. The monopoly
in kerosene oil would be a greater menace but
for the possible check of competition from abroad.
</p>

<p>
Such artificial restrictions, again, prevent the naturally
rapid growth of international commerce, which
gives the surest foundation for more permanent conditions
of peace and greater extension of welfare over the
world. The tremendous interests of the commercial
world are the strongest safeguard against unnecessary
warfare, and the best protection to any nation is the fact
that it makes itself needed by all the rest of the world.
</p>

<pb n='220'/><anchor id='Pg220'/>

<p>
Thus inter-dependence of nations rather than independence
is the essential aim of those who seek the
world's welfare. An alliance of two peoples for commercial
purposes is the best guaranty of mutual support
of national institutions.
</p>

<p>
In proof of all these statements, the experience of
the world in widely varying regions is appealed to. The
natural breaking down of prohibitory tariffs has given
opportunity for observation. Especially has the commerce
between states of the Union, where it is absolutely
free, shown the general advantage of such freedom
in rapid development of wealth and welfare. While
these states have a common interest in government, they
are nevertheless widely distinguished in peculiarities
of local government and in characteristics of people.
While, therefore, there is possible doubt as to the
wisdom of rapid removal of restrictions, there is every
probability that such restrictions will gradually be outgrown.
Even the temptation to make retaliatory duties,
where other governments restrict against our products,
is growing less with increasing experience of the true
advantage in exchanges. The world is gradually coming
to see that the better market any region of country
affords for the rest of the world, the better market the
rest of the world affords for it.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Incidental tendencies from tariff.</hi>&mdash;The incidental
effects of restrictive tariffs, and especially of the necessary
instability of restrictive legislation, are too interesting
to pass by, though very limited space can be
afforded them. In the first place they contribute to a
speculative enterprise which leads to waste of wealth in
<pb n='221'/><anchor id='Pg221'/>
unpromising undertakings because of a necessary over-estimate
of the advantage given. On the other hand, a
reduction of the same tariff after a series of years is
almost sure to bring panic in that line of industry previously
fostered. So the fluctuations of tariff laws are
one element in periodic expansion and contraction of
business. The tariff laws are certain, also, to involve the
worst element of influence through the lobby upon
legislative bodies. Even though the charge of bribery
be utterly false, the general respect for legislative bodies
is lowered by charges and countercharges for political
effect. As an occasion for such charges scarce any
other form of legislation serves as well. Even the people
themselves are easily assumed by their neighbors to
weigh their opinions upon a tariff measure by their personal
interests.
</p>

<p>
The indirect influence of a new tariff law upon the
industries of a country can scarcely be foreseen. So
interlocked are all the varieties of manufacture and
trade that a change in price of any one article of commerce
may affect hundreds of others, sometimes much
more than the article restricted. It is easily seen that a
duty upon iron of a particular shape or quality may
actually prohibit the use of that iron in some product
which already touches the margin of profit. These incidental
effects can scarcely be foreseen by even the
wisest statesman. The practical adjustment of conflicting
interests in the framing of tariff laws should be
the work of experts. If all parties could unite in establishing
a bureau of commerce, domestic and foreign, as
dignified as the Supreme Court of the United States, and
<pb n='222'/><anchor id='Pg222'/>
as independent of party interference, such a body might
frame a consistent tariff law, gradually perfecting it in
adjustment to all interests and explaining its bearings
to all parties. Such a body could take account of the
great interests of agriculture in the commerce of the
world, and weigh properly the indirect influence of restrictions.
The marked influence of fluctuating tariff
upon sheep raising, so familiar to all farmers, might
then be fairly appreciated. Under present methods it
is very certain that any tariff law is largely a compromise,
with limited judgment, between agitating conflicts
of interested promoters. The farmers, of all people, can
afford to be conservative of all interests, and should
favor such methods as will work toward enlargement of
commerce without destruction of industries. If possible,
they will wisely seek the removal of tariff questions
from practical politics.
</p>

<p>
In concluding this subject, it is wise to suggest that
the true principle of regulations for national industry
are the same as those for true family economy. The
family should so plan its work and ways as to make the
best possible use of the powers of every member. It is
no economy to buy cheap things unless the members of
the family can be better occupied than in making them.
It is poor economy to make those things which cost more
time and effort than would be used in making something
else for exchange. Home production is best when
this makes the home labor more effectual, but worst
when it interferes with the profit of labor. The farmer
who stops harvesting to mend his harness when he
might employ the harness-maker is wasteful; but if he
<pb n='223'/><anchor id='Pg223'/>
mends it on a rainy day he saves time which would
otherwise be less profitably used. So the nation whose
capital and labor are not well employed may do wisely in
developing new industries, even at a considerable expense
for introducing the new industries. But if all the nation's
energies are profitably employed, the costly development
of resources may wisely wait for future
capital and labor. So all special incentives require a
constant inquiry as to beneficial results supposed to
follow, and the policy of the government must conform
to the needs of general welfare. Even vested rights are
subject to the law of welfare involved in the original
act establishing special privileges. Public use, not private
interest, is the true reason for the existence of any
such privileges or protection.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='224'/><anchor id='Pg224'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XVI. Business Security.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Conservative influences.</hi>&mdash;We have already seen the
influence of governmental organization upon various
phases of production; but the chief fostering influence
is the general stability of a community, not only in its
laws, but in its customs and habits of life. Security in
property rights is a chief condition for accumulation
of wealth, and a still more necessary condition for
industry. Not even want will drive people to industry
when there is no certainty of possession when the work
is accomplished. The fruits of industry must be safe.
While the laws of the country are naturally considered
the guardians of rights, the customs and habits of the
people, the actual origin of laws, are even more important.
Bad habits actually nullify good laws, while bad
laws may be made quite endurable by good customs.
Thus, the welfare of every community depends upon a
conservative social influence, preventing abuse of opportunity
for injury and stimulating individual energy.
</p>

<p>
The rights of life, liberty and property must first be
dear to the mass of the people before laws can be framed
for their protection. This is especially true in a self-governing
people, but is essentially the same in the most
absolute tyranny. So the chief safeguard for every kind
<pb n='225'/><anchor id='Pg225'/>
of business is the honest character of all business men,
and such influences as establish good character and sound
judgment will be fostered on the simplest business principles.
The farmer who sells his grain or his fruit by
false samples cannot complain of false weights and
measures at the elevator. The one who gloats over victory
in a horse trade has no right to grumble at a trickster
in wool buying. The man who is caught by the
offer of a gold brick is not only foolish, but false, and
diminishes the security of himself and everybody else in
fair bargains and genuine business. The man who takes
advantage of his ignorant neighbor deserves to be at the
mercy of a more crafty dealer. Every one who makes a
false use of power over a workman beneath him may expect
a false use of power from an authority above him.
So all business interests, as well as all rights, are secured
by the right spirit in all men.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Nature of insurance.</hi>&mdash;The fundamental activity in
accumulation of wealth is foresight; but no foresight can
prevent all disasters. Fire, flood, wind and wave are
beyond control, because in some sense they are beyond
knowledge. Against such forces no foresight can secure.
The name insurance is given to every method by which
the burden of such unforeseen losses is provided for beforehand
and fairly distributed. The average of such
losses can easily be estimated by experience. Statistics
show a wonderful uniformity in the misfortunes of life
as well as, the fortunes. Even though chance be an element
in every transaction, the average of chances can be
distinctly calculated; and that average is essentially constant
among a sufficiently large number of instances.
</p>

<pb n='226'/><anchor id='Pg226'/>

<p>
All are familiar with the application of such calculations
in fire insurance. Among ten thousand houses a
certain number will be destroyed by fire every year,
provided those houses are widely distributed under
essentially similar conditions. The ten thousand house
owners can insure each owner against entire loss of his
house by mutual agreement to meet their share of the
total loss. If ten houses are burned, each of the ten
thousand house owners will pay one-thousandth part of
the total loss, making a burden easily provided for. If
at the beginning of the year each has laid aside this
sum, the loss will be met when it occurs without disturbing
the welfare of any. The machinery for such provision
is called an insurance company, and the separate
payment of each house owner is the premium or award
expressing his share of the provision. This principle
of estimating losses and providing a definite way of
meeting them is the same in all forms of insurance. It
has been recognized for hundreds of years, but only recently
has entered into the business life of the world in
all directions. For a long time false notions of reverence
for the power that wields destiny stood in the way of
such distribution of misfortune; but now the mass of
people everywhere regard such foresight in united sympathy
as natural as the planting of crops.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Various methods of insurance.</hi>&mdash;Satisfactory insurance
rests upon certain definite business principles which
every insurer may wisely study. There are various devices
for accomplishing the same end. A body of men
sufficiently large to make the average of losses uniform
may bind themselves by a simple agreement to
<pb n='227'/><anchor id='Pg227'/>
meet each loss as it occurs. To make this plan satisfactory
they will need efficient business men as officers
to devise means and methods for making the agreement
effectual, for estimating the actual loss in each case, and
for distribution of the claim by assessment sufficient to
cover the loss and the expense of collections and estimates,
as well as the maintenance of the officers. These
officers must maintain the business standing of the organization
in the community, so that it shall continue
for a long series of years to keep its numbers large
enough to maintain only the average loss.
</p>

<p>
This is a simple mutual insurance company, upon
the assessment plan. Its weakness lies in the comparatively
slight interest taken by each member in the
selection of its officers, in the absence of security for
the payment of assessments when needed, in the long
delay liable to attend collections, and the uncertain
interest of the officers in exact adjustment of losses.
Such companies are liable to be too small to give a fair
average of losses, and in any serious emergency to fail
for want of expert business ability and trustworthy
character in officers.
</p>

<p>
If, instead of the assessment after losses, a definite
percentage of probable loss is paid in advance, the responsibility
for use and maintenance of such funds calls
for a business character and ability in the officers
which usually secures better results. It especially avoids
the danger of slackness and failure on the part of the
insurer. It leads to closer scrutiny of actual losses, and
helps the insurer to more carefully measure his interest,
since he already has an investment in the business. Any
<pb n='228'/><anchor id='Pg228'/>
overestimate of expected losses may be returned in dividends
to the insured, or may be retained as a surplus
for security against losses above the average of experience.
The only weakness of this method is in the power
entrusted to individual officers, elected on the ground of
popularity by comparative strangers. Even when a
board of directors chosen from well-known business
men is added to the machinery, the dangers from incompetent
and dishonest management are not avoided.
Such directors are too prone to consider their names
their only contribution to the welfare of the association.
</p>

<p>
A joint stock company, insuring with definite premium,
is likely to bring the best business management,
the quickest though not always the fairest adjustment
of losses, and the confidence of the business community.
Its prosperity, however, is hindered somewhat by the
common judgment that the interests of the stockholders
must be against the interests of the insured. The actual
cheapness of insurance depends not so much upon the
amounts paid from time to time as upon the actual quality
of the insurance purchased. Assessment companies
of all kinds, without a legal lien upon definite property,
are decidedly lacking in quality, since their guaranty of
payment involves the financial credit of every person
insured. No one should be deceived by the promise of
insurance at cost, until he knows exactly how genuine
that insurance will remain during the period of years for
which he desires it.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Governmental control of insurance.</hi>&mdash;The essential
importance of insurance and the difficulties of providing
<pb n='229'/><anchor id='Pg229'/>
against fraud and mismanagement have led naturally to
government inspection, and in some countries to government
control of insurance agencies. The laws of various
states provide differently for inspection and reports, and
restrict the action of companies in various directions.
It is probable that time will develop the necessity of
greater uniformity of insurance laws and more definite
requirements in the way of published reports and expert
inspection. At present, insurance commissioners often
have the confidence of neither companies nor people, and
no expert knowledge is demanded in the candidate for
that office.
</p>

<p>
The desirability of insurance by government direct
is questioned so long as governments themselves are unstable
and popular will favors laxity in the business
machinery. That insurance could in this way be made
cheaper is a matter of doubt while great masses of
people magnify their claims against government and
minify their obligations to it. Frauds against government
in both taxes and claims are proverbial. At any
rate, governments will not wisely undertake the indefinite
applications of insurance until larger experience and
wider acquaintance with the methods in vogue are
reached.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Applications of insurance.</hi>&mdash;The applications of insurance
are indefinite in variety. There is no limit to
the possibilities except in the lack of experience to
settle the average of hardships. Insurance of property
against fire and storm is well understood and almost
everywhere practiced. Insurance of life is almost equally
extended, in which the head of a family may in a measure
<pb n='230'/><anchor id='Pg230'/>
provide against the suffering of his family in his unexpected
removal by death. This is easily extended into
insurance against accident. In this, as in life insurance,
there is some lack of experience, as yet, as to the actual
cost. It is possible even to insure against dishonesty of
employs through so-called bond and security companies,
which issue bonds for definite amounts payable
in case of failure of the person whose character is insured
to meet the expectations of his employer. Such
companies, in their own interest, exercise an influence
over the character of those for whom they have given
bonds by attention to their habits of life and business
methods. They make more prominent the maxim,
<q>Honesty is the best policy,</q> whether they actually
cultivate honesty in fact or not.
</p>

<p>
There is no conceivable limit to the possible applications
of the principles of insurance. It seems possible
that a body of business farmers, subject as they are to
so many disasters from weather, insects and contagious
diseases of stock and vegetation, might devise methods
of equalizing and diminishing the disaster from such
losses in a common system of insurance. As a basis for
such systematic action, careful statistics for large
regions of country are absolutely necessary. With such
losses clearly presented and averages fairly estimated,
insurance would be just as feasible as it is now against
fire. It will be wisely undertaken first upon such matters
as can be most definitely measured in dollars and
cents. Losses from accidents to teams and other live
stock have already been studied and insurance to a limited
extent attempted. The difficulties of such insurance
<pb n='231'/><anchor id='Pg231'/>
are greatly increased by the ease with which owners
may contrive to market unsalable stock through a false
representation of misfortune. The possibilities, however,
of extending the advantages of insurance in a
business of this nature are worthy of more careful
study.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='233'/><anchor id='Pg233'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Part II. Distribution of Wealth for Welfare.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XVII. General Principles Of Fair Distribution.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Wealth distributed, not welfare.</hi>&mdash;In considering the
principles of fair distribution among all the parties contributing
to production of wealth, it is necessary to
remember that wealth and not welfare is the subject of
thought. A child may have equal right to welfare with
his father, but cannot in any sense have equal ownership
of wealth. The welfare of a complete imbecile may be
the care of the state, but he can in no sense control
wealth. Distribution of wealth cannot, therefore, include
the subjects of charity, but must be confined to a study
of the natural relations between individual owners of
wealth or individual contributors to production, which
make control of a portion of accumulated wealth essential
to individual welfare.
</p>

<p>
A pound of tea may include in its value the efforts of
a hundred different persons. What are the principles
upon which those hundred people may be fairly compensated
by the actual consumer of the pound of tea? This
<pb n='234'/><anchor id='Pg234'/>
illustrates the complexity of the whole subject of distribution.
No drinker of tea would dare to settle the question
of fair distribution arbitrarily. No one would even
offer a theory by which a perfect settlement could be
reached. Yet when the pound of tea is put upon the
pantry shelf, the fifty cents paid for it has already been
divided into a hundred unequal portions adjusted by
some method of custom to meet the ideas of every helper
in the long list. Each has had some portion of the
wealth produced, though the distribution may have taken
place in different countries, under different laws and
customs, through a period of months or years. This
distribution involves the whole question of industrial
freedom, and rests finally upon the principle of equity
as applied to ownership of one's powers and the product
of those powers. It also involves, to a certain extent,
the decision of what is properly wealth and what is
properly a part of universal welfare.
</p>

<p>
The important questions connected with the subject
will not be satisfactorily settled until a reasonable
adjustment of all claims is reached by the masses engaged
in production. The modern discussions of the interests
of laborers are proof that the world is thinking more
and more of individual rights in property, and no
sweeping assertions as to inequity of property rights
help to solve the questions. It is because each individual
has a distinct equity in what is produced in part by his
efforts that there is need of better adjustment. All reforms,
therefore, must be along the line of fair distribution,
or fail of their end.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Distribution by exchange.</hi>&mdash;Ordinary observation
<pb n='235'/><anchor id='Pg235'/>
shows that distribution is made chiefly in the customary
method of exchange. A pound of butter may find its
way from the farmer's dairy to the actual consumer in
a distant country. In its final value, the consumer
compensates the retail dealer for his services in handling
it and for advance payments, including every other
handler and every other service, down to the boy who
drove the cows to pasture. If the system of universal
exchanges is free and fair, each has received his fair
compensation. In general, then, distribution of wealth
is made automatically in the ordinary processes of production,
exchange itself being one of the steps by
which value to the consumer becomes value also to the
producer.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Fair exchange above laws.</hi>&mdash;Under perfect freedom
of exchange, the general law of supply and demand
already illustrated is more effective than any laws can
be in adjusting wages or profit to efforts in production,
and in adjusting interest or rent or both to the capital
employed or to other means of production controlled.
Any customs or laws which interfere with natural conditions
of supply and demand hinder rather than help
toward a fair adjustment. In any progressive community
such laws will surely fail, for the reason that in
making such laws human nature is in conflict with
itself. The history of increasing individual welfare in
any part of the world gives a story of more ready and
free competition in open market for all commodities and
all services. In perceiving this we must not overlook
the fact that fraud and ignorance, as well as arbitrary
power, stand opposed to fair exchanges. Nor must we
<pb n='236'/><anchor id='Pg236'/>
be satisfied with any condition which involves meeting
restrictions with restrictions or force with force. Such
conditions must be but temporary.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Actual and nominal compensation.</hi>&mdash;In considering
compensation for any services, it is necessary to distinguish
carefully between the actual compensation in welfare
and the nominal compensation in money. A farmer
in Nebraska may get a larger return for his labor with
corn at 15 cents a bushel than he could in Massachusetts
with corn at 40 cents a bushel. Just so a
wage-earner, receiving $1.50 a day in Ohio, might lose
in welfare by exchanging work with his neighbor in
New Mexico, who gets $2.50 a day. This means that
$1.50 in Ohio may buy more comfort than $2.50 can
buy in New Mexico. This is very important in comparing
the wages of different classes of workmen in the
same country, as well as the wages of similar workmen
in different countries. It has an important bearing,
too, upon relative profits and interest. The actual compensation
in welfare is the natural basis for adjustment
in all distribution, and the law of supply and demand
rests directly upon this.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Wages, profits, interest and rent take the product.</hi>&mdash;It
is common to consider distribution as made in the
forms of wages for labor given without risk as to the
product, profits to the one whose labor is associated with
risk of loss as well as gain, interest to the one who furnishes
capital in any form and waits for his compensation,
and rent to the landlord, or owner of estate, whose
property is used for a definite time and returned. It is
evident that any advantage received in any of these
<pb n='237'/><anchor id='Pg237'/>
ways, at any time, must come from the actual available
goods in store suitable for division and consumption.
The farmer cannot pay his hired hand with his farm,
though he may be able to do so with his products. The
farmer himself cannot realize his profits until he has
the proceeds of his work in the shape of consumable
goods. So, at any particular time, the total of products
fit for consumption makes the source from which all
distribution must come. Debts and credits can have no
consideration in the total, for the reason that they exactly
offset each other. A general conflict of interested
persons as to wages, profits, interest or rent comes from
the difficulty of sharing in the actual goods at hand.
The relation of each to the whole depends upon circumstances
to be discussed in future chapters. It is certain
that the larger proportion of daily production goes to
the mass of the people who consume their share from
day to day. It is estimated that fully 80 per cent of
such wealth is used up by those who contribute no use
of capital to the productive force. It seems probable
also that this ratio is increasing rather than diminishing,
but no statistics are sufficient to show the
exact facts.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Cheap standards of living.</hi>&mdash;In the natural competition
of laborers with each other, the general standard
of living&mdash;physical, intellectual and moral&mdash;have an
important bearing. The Chinaman in this country
competes with the American upon a wholly different
plane of living. His habitual needs being less, he is
willing to work for wages that will not tempt the native
American. If he can do the same work, living as he
<pb n='238'/><anchor id='Pg238'/>
does, he necessarily becomes a cheaper force in production,
and the American must find a better field for his
energies or go without employment. Under ordinary
circumstances, the introduction of laborers able to live
more cheaply acts upon the better class of laborers
exactly like the introduction of labor-saving machinery.
It first brings hardship from direct competition, but the
cheapening of products brings enlarged demands and so
gives new impetus to production, requiring the very
skill which the better class of laborers alone can
furnish.
</p>

<p>
Thus the employment of Chinamen upon railroad
embankments made places for native laborers as section
bosses and engineers. The Huns and Italians that
underbid the Irish miners in Pennsylvania have destroyed
the <q>Molly McGuires</q> by making the same men
responsible for larger enterprises. Yet the standards of
living, which show a constant improvement, indicate a
truer freedom of competition and a clearer recognition
of individual wants and abilities. No one can watch
the development of any country without realizing that
its thrift, enterprise and progressive welfare depend
largely upon increasing wants. Men who live best produce
most and enjoy most.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='239'/><anchor id='Pg239'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XVIII. Wages And Profits.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Wages distinguished from profits.</hi>&mdash;In discussing the
subject of wages and profits, it is necessary to remember
that both are compensation in different ways for actual
exertion. If in estimating profits we sometimes include
a return for the use of capital, it is from incomplete analysis
of the forces in use, since the interest upon capital
can easily be separated in all actual practice, and in most
enterprises is counted as a distinct expense to be provided
for in entering upon the undertaking. The profits
really belong to the management of any undertaking, as
return for the exertion in that management. In every-day
use the term wages is applied only to the stipulated
amount paid from time to time for services rendered to
another. There is practically no difference between such
payments made for service by the hour, day, week,
month or year. If, however, the engagement for service
is by the year, the name salary is more likely to
be given than wages.
</p>

<p>
Further, the term wages is most distinctly applied
when the service is rendered as a task, and wage-earners
when found in considerable bodies are usually called
operatives, under the natural classification of labor explained
and illustrated in Chapter <ref target='Chapter_III'>III</ref> (page
<ref target='Pg035'>35</ref>).
</p>

<pb n='240'/><anchor id='Pg240'/>

<p>
The services of an overseer are much more likely to
be permanently required, and his wages are therefore
called a salary, estimated by the year even though payments
be made monthly or even weekly. In this case, the
labor is chiefly executive, taking a higher rank because of
the greater powers required. In this case the overseer
is supposed to have definite plans provided for his work,
and to carry out those plans to the best of his ability.
</p>

<p>
If, in contrast with this, one's efforts are given to
managing a business, devising the ends to be accomplished
as well as planning for their accomplishment, he
is said to have entire responsibility for results and to
receive what he can make out of the business. His exertion
is chiefly speculative labor, and the returns for his
<hi rend='italic'>speculation</hi> or foresight&mdash;often effort of the severest
kind&mdash;are termed profits. Such efforts have already
been illustrated in Chapter <ref target='Chapter_III'>III</ref>,
page <ref target='Pg035'>35</ref>. No generally
accepted name has been given to the one who thus carries
the entire responsibility of the business, but the
word manager conveys to most people the general idea
involved. While it is true that a manager may sometimes
work for a salary, in general the very inventive
ability required for success makes the stimulant of
profits the most natural means of securing higher effectiveness.
Most managers, even of stock companies, must
from the nature of the case be at least sharers in the
profits. Farmers easily distinguish between those who
work for stipulated wages, often called farm hands, and
the farmer himself, who gets the pay for all his endless
variety of labor, including his constant planning, in the
shape of profits.
</p>

<pb n='241'/><anchor id='Pg241'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Wages defined.</hi>&mdash;Hence it is fair to define wages as a
stipulated sum, paid at stipulated times, for stipulated
services, measured either by the number of distinct services
or by the time of service. A wage-earner must
therefore be one who sells his powers, whatever they may
be, for the use of another, bringing his own services
rather than the products of those services to the best
market he can find. In general, he prefers the definite
promise of another to the indefinite chances that he may
produce what is to be wanted in the future market.
Very often he considers the bird in the hand worth any
number in the bush, and is satisfied to take a certain
living from day to day rather than risk his ability by his
own contrivance to meet larger wants. Among the
wage-earners we necessarily find all individuals of undeveloped
powers of body or mind, dependent upon the
rest of the community for both tools and task; also all
who render personal services, and most of the laborers of
all sorts in every kind of factory.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Profits defined.</hi>&mdash;Profits may be defined as the indefinite
returns for exertion, including all risks, which
any manager of his own or others' industry secures by
bringing his products into open market. In general
the term includes the recompense for any kind of labor,
however rendered, if the uncertainty of demand and
supply belongs to the one who renders the service.
Thus even the fees of a lawyer or a doctor come under
the general principles of profits, whenever the conditions
of payment in any respect depend upon success.
If, on the other hand, such fees are stipulated sums for
a stated service, they fall into the rank of wages. That
<pb n='242'/><anchor id='Pg242'/>
the dividing line between wages and profits is not
always clear is shown in comparing payment by the
piece in manufacturing clothing, for instance, and payment
by the hour for the same kind of work. In the
payment by the piece, the stimulant of enterprise
borders upon the nature of profits. In payment by the
hour, that stimulant is wanting. Yet we are likely to
consider the difference as simply a difference in method
of estimating wages. Two men ditching side by side
may work, one by the day and the other by the rod.
</p>

<p>
It is possible even to combine the two systems of
payment so as to involve both wages and profits. Farm
hands in England have been paid a certain price per
month, with a share in the profits, measured by the
number of cart-loads of grain marketed. Clerks and
agents frequently work for stipulated wages, with an
added percentage upon the value of sales. Most
farmers in estimating the results of a year's labor count
their own services, at the price of a hand, as a part of
the cost of their products, and distinguish as profits the
surplus of product above all expenditures. Thus a
farmer may estimate as outgo the interest on capital
invested, the wear and tear of machinery, the produce
consumed upon the farm, the taxes paid to the government,
and the wages to all who labor, including himself
and his family. Any return from his products beyond
enough to meet these outgoes he will consider profits.
These will reward him for extra foresight and contrivance
in management and marketing, as well as risk
arising from possibility of failure in his plans, destruction
of his crop or stock, fluctuations in price, and uncertainty
<pb n='243'/><anchor id='Pg243'/>
of collection for his sales. Such risks and
exertions every independent worker assumes. Usually
the exertions are impossible to the inexperienced, and
the risks cannot be taken without accumulated capital
or a credit established upon well-known character and
ability. This fact naturally limits the number of competitors
for profits. The effect is clearly illustrated in
the difference between an ordinary farm hand and the
renter of a farm. Few farmers would encourage the
best of their farm hands to take the burden of risks
and care implied in renting. The successful farm renter
requires abilities and means, gained only by experience
and accumulation.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Wages vary with abilities employed.</hi>&mdash;The variation
of wages among different classes of workmen in the
same calling is universally recognized as dependent
upon the powers employed. The strictly operative labor
is usually paid by the hour, day or week, the terms varying
with the supposed strength or skill exerted. Executive
duties commanding monthly or yearly salaries vary
with the total amount of responsibility implied, the
large establishment requiring greater abilities than the
small one. The strain of responsibility increases in
some degree with the number of operative laborers employed,
and successful oversight of many hands may be
essential to their profitable employment. In that case
the salary of the overseer gains something of the nature
of profits, since the manager gauges the pay by profits
expected. If, as in great stock companies, a manager is
hired at a stipulated salary, his personal abilities, as
tested by accomplishment, are likely to be the sole
<pb n='244'/><anchor id='Pg244'/>
gauge of wages. A successful manager of a great enterprise
can scarcely be said to have a market price for
his services, but will estimate himself in large measure
by the profits he might secure as an independent business
man. Within limits, such salaries will vary with
the experience and inventive ability required.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Supply and demand in wages.</hi>&mdash;Wages in general
are subject as truly to the law of supply and demand as
are the products of labor. If few places are vacant and
many applicants seek those places, it is impossible to
prevent the reduction of wages through the anxiety of
some applicants to secure places. On the other hand,
if few applicants seek the places open to many, each
will find the employer most willing to give an increase
of wages for his work. Laws cannot prevent such natural
competition, though they may hinder it. Even
organization under secret bonds can only temporarily
restrain. Human nature is stronger than any arbitrary
restriction.
</p>

<p>
In general, then, wages in any particular occupation
may be affected directly by limited competition. Any
necessity for peculiar abilities of body or mind, or for
preparation by education or training, makes certain, as
far as it goes, a limited competition, and therefore the
opportunity for higher than ordinary wages. In the
same way, if unavoidable hardships or dangers are involved,
comparatively few workers will seek such employment
and can have larger pay. If, however, the
dangers carry with them a stimulating excitement and
exhibition of daring, arousing admiration for the
worker, this may offset entirely the effect of the danger.
</p>

<pb n='245'/><anchor id='Pg245'/>

<p>
Soldiers and railroad employs for such reasons do not
command pay in proportion to the dangers met. Any
employment where there are obstacles to natural advancement
or where continuance is uncertain does not
attract applicants except by higher wages. Illustrations
of all these occasions for limited competition are
found everywhere.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Stimulants to competition.</hi>&mdash;If any occupation shows
circumstances making entrance easy for new applicants,
or if advantages for promotion are readily seen, or if it
seems to have a special respectability with the advantage
of social privileges, especially if it in some respects seems
a work of philanthropy, there will be multitudes ready
to engage, and willing to undertake the work at less
than average compensation. It is commonly said that
these peculiar advantages are a part of the compensation.
They operate simply as a stimulant to competition, making
more people willing to enter such employment at
small wages than would be willing without these special
advantages.
</p>

<p>
A good illustration of such employments is found in
common school teaching. While a teacher does need an
expensive preparation, and success is dependent upon
special adaptability to the work, it is nevertheless true
that the work can be taken up readily and as readily laid
down; it confers upon the applicant the privilege of
social recognition and somewhat of personal dignity; it
gives opportunities for some note in the community, and,
with all, it is considered a work of philanthropic character,
entitling to the gratitude of the public. The result
is that teachers everywhere command less of salary or
<pb n='246'/><anchor id='Pg246'/>
wages in proportion to their abilities than other classes
of wage-earners. Fortunately, this stimulant to competition
appeals largely to those characteristics of the
individual teacher which make him more serviceable in
his calling. The opportunity for a life of study, added
to other considerations, makes still more effective the
competition of earnest, philanthropic students, such as
the world needs for teachers.
</p>

<p>
In the lower ranks of teachers, competition is still
more increased by the fact that common school teaching
can be temporarily carried on in the intervals of study,
without interfering with mental growth. Teaching is
also specially adapted for the temporary employment of
young men and women not quite ready to enter the
actual life work. Acquaintance with human nature,
which it fosters, is thought to be good preparation for
home and business life. The employments in which
women largely engage as wage-earners are chiefly of this
temporary character. The fact that the life work of most
women must be the making of the home hinders competition
in employments where long apprenticeship or
special skill of any kind may be demanded. Any temporary
employment not only appeals to her sense of
capacity for earning wages, but seems better adapted to
her future. If that employment at the same time affords
opportunity for social life and calls for the natural
adornments of youth, the young woman considers wages
only a small part of the general consideration, and is
satisfied with a bare living. Hence clerkships in stores,
subordinate positions as teachers and places as typewriters
are crowded with applicants at wages insufficient
<pb n='247'/><anchor id='Pg247'/>
for a life-time support. Employment in domestic service,
which might be supposed more consistent with the
larger work of life, is rendered less attractive by the
almost entire absence of social privileges and natural
opportunities for advancement in knowledge of the world.
Girls who would prefer house work, with equal social
freedom and the natural stimulant of contact with other
young people, compete for lower wages in less satisfactory
employment during the years of their girlhood. This is
less noticeable in country life, where girls in domestic
service become a part of the household and share in the
privileges of the young people at home.
</p>

<p>
Another illustration of the depressing effect upon
wages of excessive competition is found in the work of
women upon cheap clothing. This work is usually done
by the piece in the home, and can be taken up at intervals
between household duties. Many women consider
earnings of this kind a mere addition of spending money
to a somewhat meager support in their home life. It can
be carried on without display, and so preserves the dignity
of persons who would otherwise shrink from wage earning.
The result is a very serious competition, reducing
wages below even enough to sustain life and character.
</p>

<p>
These are only illustrations of what happens in every
calling when circumstances stimulate excessive competition.
Relief can come only from larger range of satisfactory
employment and a clearer distinction in favor of
genuine wage-earners and genuine employers among the
mass of the people. The customs of society have a
much stronger influence upon the life of women in
steady employments than upon that of men. A thoroughly
<pb n='248'/><anchor id='Pg248'/>
enlightened community can do much to enlarge
the sphere of such women as are naturally wage-earners,
by proper encouragement of their enterprise.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Fluctuation of wages.</hi>&mdash;Wages in every employment
are just as naturally subject to fluctuation under the law
of supply and demand as are prices of commodities.
Whatever operates to increase the number seeking employment,
or to diminish the amount of employment
open to competition, reduces the wages. Whatever increases
the opportunity for employment, or diminishes
the number of persons seeking employment, increases
the wages. This is well illustrated in the cost of harvest
hands in a year of large crops as compared with a year
of small crops. Any financial disturbance, checking the
building of railroads and other great enterprises, brings
multitudes of would-be farm hands to compete with
those who naturally follow farming. On the other hand,
the introduction of factories or mining industries has
sometimes affected directly the wages of farm hands
through a large region by lessening competition.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Upward tendency of wages.</hi>&mdash;It is certain that the
general tendency of wages in all employments is upward
rather than downward, in spite of serious disturbances
from financial depression often repeated. The gradual
increase of welfare among wage-earners is greater even
than the increase in money wages. Those who are inclined
to join in the cry that the former times were
better than these can be answered as they were in Solomon's
time, <q>Thou dost not inquire wisely concerning
this.</q> No doubt the transition from small workshops to
large ones and from small factories to great combinations
<pb n='249'/><anchor id='Pg249'/>
has caused friction in adjustment to the new conditions.
Many are now wage-earners who were once
profit-gainers. But with the improvements in association
and a clearer understanding of abilities and needs,
each worker becomes a stronger factor than ever before
in bringing about a fair competition and a satisfactory
compensation.
</p>

<p>
There are still new difficulties in every change of
method. The influence of custom often retards freedom
of movement, makes more slow the natural rise of
wages, and hinders a gradual adjustment to new conditions.
In many cases it prevents individual enterprise
among wage-earners, and crowds from the higher ranks
into competition with the lower because of no natural
outlet for ambition. Even laws intended to protect
laborers sometimes operate against them. Thus a law
restricting the terms of contract between workmen and
their employer has sometimes prevented the employer
from investing capital in a business which otherwise
would have increased the opportunity for labor, and so
would have actually increased wages.
</p>

<p>
The effect of free schools upon ability to earn is generally
recognized. The best estimates place the increase
resulting from common school education at fully 25 per
cent. Some of the best establishments are limiting their
offers of employment to young people who have had the
advantage of even high school training. This more
general education tends in two ways to increase the
compensation of wage-earners: first, by giving a
clear knowledge of abilities that makes competition
fairer; and second, by increasing the general effectiveness
<pb n='250'/><anchor id='Pg250'/>
of all production, which enlarges the sum to be
divided.
</p>

<p>
Every movement toward greater social freedom and
uniformity of opportunity contributes to the same end.
Next to slavery, social caste is the chief obstacle to free
and fair competition of laborers. Any barriers of race,
social organizations, or even churches, which cultivate
exclusiveness in any direction, in the end work hardship.
If they bring temporary advantage to a few, they
are sure to hamper the freedom of many. The welfare
of the community is surest when social conditions favor
the freest communication in all ranges of employment,
whether in wage-earning or in profit-making.
</p>

<p>
The cheapening of transportation in recent years,
bringing all the world nearer, has had various effects
upon wages. It has destroyed, to a considerable extent,
the inequality of wages between different regions
of country. If laborers of any kind are scarce, a telegram
will within a few hours bring numbers from some
place where they are too plenty. The result is a tendency
to greater uniformity throughout the world. As
yet the full effects of this progress are not realized.
Some hardships will undoubtedly be endured from the
ready introduction of unskilled laborers from crowded
countries into our less densely peopled country. But
with a larger range of production opened by cheap
labor, our better workmen will find more constant and
more remunerative employment. If restrictions upon
immigration are necessary, it must be to prevent too
sudden a transition, hindering adjustment to new conditions.
The danger of overcrowded population comes
<pb n='251'/><anchor id='Pg251'/>
more certainly to the nation excluding itself from the
great world by excluding the rest of the world from
itself.
</p>

<p>
The general effect of improved machinery has been
several times referred to already. Its advantages come
to the wage-earner directly in multiplying employments
and in multiplying the demand by cheapening products.
Indirectly, the benefits are still greater, because these
cheaper products form the bulk of living for the
workers. It is probable that even the better living thus
provided has raised the efficiency of labor so as to command
better wages. It is certain that every movement
of civilization which gives a clearer knowledge of human
nature and the world about us adds to the power
of every man, whatever his work. We may welcome
every element of progress in this enlightenment as a
direct help to the portion of humanity recognized as
wage-earners. The better the masses of people understand
each other the better each understands himself;
and that understanding is the best protection against
oppression of circumstances or of men.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Variation in profits.</hi>&mdash;Profits in various pursuits,
like wages, are affected by limited competition. The
need of special abilities and experience in any particular
undertaking keeps back the timid from that enterprise,
and the accumulation of experience of a peculiar
kind hinders one from turning to other occupations.
Even if a young man is willing to take the
risk of inexperience as a manager, he can seldom gain
the confidence of those who control capital. Hence
competition in new and untried enterprises is slight, and
<pb n='252'/><anchor id='Pg252'/>
profits are often great. Other undertakings are of such
a nature as to involve great uncertainty. The risk of
failure retards the cautious, and so the most enterprising
win great returns. In estimating such returns, we
overlook the failures and count only the great successes.
Sometimes accidental opportunities open to the few a
limited range of enormous profits. Legislation fostering
monopoly sometimes favors such opportunities. These
are usually temporary, and such advantage cannot long
be maintained under the most fortunate conditions.
Secret methods have sometimes controlled the market
for individuals with enormous gain, and in a few instances
a nation has maintained such secrecy with apparent
success. But these, too, quickly yield before
competing enterprise, since wage-earners under such
employers must share to some extent the secret, and
will have the stimulant of enormous profits to use the
secret for themselves.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Profits in competition.</hi>&mdash;Profits are themselves a
stimulant to competition, and competition in every pursuit
tends to reduce the profits. If any circumstance
apparently insures more than average profits in any
undertaking, competition becomes excessive and profits
vanish. The promise of a tariff on wool leads farmers
to expect an advance in the profits of sheep raising.
Competition begins in the purchase of flocks, by which
the profits of those already in the business are greatly
increased. Competition continues by multiplication in
the flocks until sellers of sheep are more plenty than
buyers. Thus, the stimulant to competition has operated
to lessen profits in the end. A famous sheep
<pb n='253'/><anchor id='Pg253'/>
raiser in New York, when asked to give a maxim for
success in the business, answered, <q>Buy when your
neighbors sell, and sell when your neighbors buy.</q>
</p>

<p>
Similar experience has been noted in various pursuits.
The tendency, however, with wider knowledge
of others' wants and efforts is toward a greater uniformity
of profits. Modern methods of production and
clearer perception of ways and means make it easier for
competition to have its full effect between different
kinds of business, as well as in the same business. The
more we know of our neighbor's work through the daily
press and extensive travel, the fairer is the opportunity
for competition to act. This tendency brings hardship
to the weaker portion of managers engaged in any particular
business. This makes the power of so-called
trusts and great combinations apparently harmful. In
the end, however, the result is more constant profits,
though smaller, and the advantage of the whole community
in a more stable business. It is even conceivable
that the stimulant of fair profits may finally reach a
larger proportion of the community through interest in
the great establishments than in the past from the unequal
and uncertain returns of independent managers.
</p>

<p>
Even among professional men, whose fees for services
have somewhat the nature of profits, the same law of
competition, dependent upon supply and demand, holds
sway. The compensation of an author for his publications,
though protected by copyright, is dependent upon
conditions limiting competition or stimulating it. It is
customary for surgeons, physicians and dentists to make
a fee proportional to the demand for their services.
<pb n='254'/><anchor id='Pg254'/>
Thus the skilled dentist, who is wanted by ten times as
many people as he can serve, raises his price till the demand
is limited to meet his strength. This enables
younger men at smaller prices to gain the opportunity to
establish like reputations by doing equally good work.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Profits in agriculture.</hi>&mdash;The profits in agriculture are
subject to the same laws. Many influences operate in
both directions. The limitation of land fit for agricultural
purposes has a tendency in itself to increase the
profits of land-holders, under the principle of monopoly,
though its chief effect is on land values. The increasing
wealth of the world, and the greatly increased wants of
the civilized community, multiplying manufactures, limit
competitors more and more. The relative number of
farmers in our country is gradually diminishing, while
the demand for food is actually increasing beyond the
increase in population. Men are predicting every year
a scarcity price for wheat,&mdash;unwisely, probably,&mdash;through
the limited range of possibilities in wheat raising.
The introduction of labor-saving machinery enables
enterprising farmers to greatly increase their
product for the same number of acres, and still further
to increase the range of management so as to make
larger farms a possibility. The rapid advance of means
of transportation has so widened the range of competition
as to make the farmer in one part of the world
compete with the farmers of every other part. The
staple products, especially wheat, being so easily adapted
to new countries, are constantly liable to over-production.
At the same time the effects of a bad season in
any particular region, while reducing the crop, are not
<pb n='255'/><anchor id='Pg255'/>
likely to advance the price to the same extent as formerly.
The opening of vast regions once considered
deserts to a rapid settlement by farmers for the sake of
the profits in land speculation has again and again
wrought changes in the entire business of agriculture.
Similar effects may be expected still with the development
of South America, South Africa and Siberia.
</p>

<p>
All these facts tend now to make the profits in agriculture
decline, and the fact that farm life has certain
attractions in establishing permanent homes for families
and life-time associations, contributes to this tendency
by holding people to their place as farmers for at least a
generation. The possibility of independent enterprise,
even with small profit, and the freedom of family life
from interference of neighbors make large numbers of
farmers willing to continue their business in spite of the
reduced earnings.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Fluctuation in profits.</hi>&mdash;It is proper to call attention
to the rapid effects of any change in market upon the
profits of any enterprise. Wages are in large measure an
anticipation of profits, and so far as they are affected by
changes in market prices, it is largely through estimates
upon averages. Custom has much to do with wages demanded
and paid, but profits are fluctuating constantly
with the fluctuation of prices, with every change of
methods affecting competition, with every introduction
of improved machinery and with every accident of
fortune.
</p>

<p>
No better illustration of this fact can be given than
is familiar to every farmer in comparison of results from
the work of different seasons. With the same outgo for
<pb n='256'/><anchor id='Pg256'/>
labor he may find the profits of two successive years wide
apart. One year has granted the fortune of good crops
with fair prices, while the other has yielded him a half
crop when the prices of his product in the world are low.
Possibly the improved machinery in wheat raising, applicable
to the great farms of Minnesota, Dakota and
California, has caused him to bring a costly product into
close competition with a cheap one. Possibly, too, he
has been tempted to excessive use of labor-saving machinery
himself at too great cost for the transition, and
it is more than probable that, stimulated by the high
price of oats last year, he, with thousands of his neighbors,
has made an extra crop of oats this year, to the
actual destruction of the market. In all these cases the
farmer himself suffers directly, while his hired hand is
affected only indirectly by the unwillingness of farmers
in some seasons to employ as much labor.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Profits offset by losses.</hi>&mdash;The actual profits in any
enterprise are often overestimated by our failing to notice
that all the waste of unthrifty undertakings comes practically
out of the profits of the more thrifty. Wage-earners
as a class are protected against losses by frequent
settlements and by public sentiment. The losses of the
unthrifty managers come out of the accumulations of
previous thrift, or else are borne by the thrifty men who
have trusted them. The bulk of bad debts in failure of
any enterprise is for materials, machinery, etc., furnished
by other producers. In great financial depression,
the profit-makers bear the evil directly, while the wage-earners
feel the effects in the lessened competition for
their service.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='257'/><anchor id='Pg257'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XIX. Conflict Between Wage-Earners And
Profit-Makers.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The nature of the conflict.</hi>&mdash;The mutual interest of all
whose energies are used in production, that the total
product of wealth should be as great as possible, is often
disturbed by doubt as to the fair division of what is produced.
Under the modern factory system, the multitude
sustain the relation of employs to a comparatively few
employers. Antipathies are liable at any time to arise
between these two classes of workers. Those who officially
control wealth in great enterprises are subject to
suspicion of unfair treatment of their less independent
employs. Ignorance among the mass of laborers of the
intricacies of business life contributes to such suspicion.
In fact, the so-called conflict of capital and labor is a
struggle for and against profits. Interest and rent are
only indirectly involved in the question. The manager's
profits may be assumed by both manager and wage-earners
to arise from reduction of wages. The necessary
reticence of business managers and the frequent
arbitrary decisions as to wages help the wage-earner to
feel that his interests conflict with those of his
employer.
</p>

<p>
It is well for all to realize that this conflict, when
<pb n='258'/><anchor id='Pg258'/>
there is one, is not so much between the rich and the
poor as between the struggler for profits and the struggler
for wages. In many instances the true solution lies
in the same direction, if both could see the facts alike.
It is an acknowledged fact that generous wages make
enlightened, energetic laborers, and that greater profits
come in the long series of undertakings from the most
intelligent service. A farm-hand at $20 a month is
sometimes worth more than two at $15. On the other
hand, if markets are low and profits decline, permanence
of employment will depend upon a readiness of wage-earners
to accept a new adjustment of wages to conditions.
Everything which fosters a better understanding
between profit-makers and wage-earners contributes to
the welfare of both. Everything which hinders such
understanding injures the welfare of both. The cost of
such friction is borne by both parties. But in the long
run, the wage-earners are liable to carry the larger part.
Even the destruction of property by rust, decay, or even
violence, comes back upon the wage-earners who might
have been employed in its use, quite as truly as upon the
manager whose profits and accumulations are wasted.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Obstacles to fair understanding.</hi>&mdash;The necessary ills
connected with advancing civilization, in the laying aside
of old methods for new, in the adoption of extensive
machinery, and in the more perfect competition with the
world, fall upon both profit-maker and wage-earner.
The wage-earner feels the immediate loss of his usual
opportunities. The profit-maker feels the weight of
providing new machinery, devising new methods and
taking the longer range of chances. All these ills are
<pb n='259'/><anchor id='Pg259'/>
met in time by intelligent and hopeful struggles for the
best. In the worst conditions ever brought by improved
machinery, a very few years have brought relief and improvement
to the very class of laborers injured.
</p>

<p>
The danger is that wholesome competition upon a
clear basis of fair understanding and free range of enterprise
may be checked by legislation or organization
for class purposes. Against the interests of the mass of
the people are all extended franchises, giving arbitrary
control for long periods of years over any industry; monopolies
sustained by patent rights or protective duties;
trusts, so far as they imply a combination of men to
resist the law of supply and demand; and laws which in
any way favor one class of people engaged in one kind
of industry as opposed to any or every other.
</p>

<p>
Quite as prominent are those hindrances which come
from every kind of fraud, including adulteration and
misrepresentation of products, deception as to market
conditions, false credit, and violence of every kind. The
more perfect the light thrown upon all the conditions of
production, the better the understanding which all men
may have of a neighbor's welfare, and the easier it is to
put ourselves in our neighbor's place.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Strikes.</hi>&mdash;The methods of warfare between wage-earners
and profit-makers are quite generally understood
under the names of strikes, boycotts and lockouts. The
occasion for a strike, which means a sudden stopping of
work by the employs of an establishment, is usually
some question of immediate advantage to the workmen.
A desire for increased wages, fewer or different hours of
labor, or the removal of some restriction upon habits or
<pb n='260'/><anchor id='Pg260'/>
associations, gradually becomes general, and through
some permanent or temporary organization united action
is taken. Quite frequently a strike is occasioned by a
sudden and apparently arbitrary reduction of wages,
affecting a large body of men. Many strikes are inaugurated
in the interests of discharged workmen, when the
organization to which they belong is supposed to be interested.
</p>

<p>
Thus a strike is always a form of warfare, and should
be entered upon only after the same careful consideration
that makes war sometimes a necessity. Under ordinary
circumstances and upon general principles, no body of
workmen has any more right to suddenly stop work
without notice than railway managers have to stop a
daily milk train. The end to be secured must be important
enough to humanity to overbalance the injury of
the strike itself.
</p>

<p>
Since a strike is an effort to produce a corner in the
labor market, it will succeed in the end sought only when
conditions for cornering the market are favorable. Even
then the loss to the entire community is considerable.
The injury to property, while directly borne by the
profit-makers, is widely distributed. First, all wages
stop and wage-earners suffer. Second, ability to pay
debts ceases and capital owners suffer. Third, insurance
companies have their risks increased and all insurers
suffer. Fourth, the market for the products is demoralized
and all consumers suffer. Fifth, almost always
social disorder results, police expenses are greatly increased,
and all taxpayers suffer. Sixth, in the end the
relation between employers and employed is more
<pb n='261'/><anchor id='Pg261'/>
strained and less free than before, so that all humanity
suffers.
</p>

<p>
The chances of success, as indicated by the record
of many years, are small, and apparent successes are
often temporary. And yet the world recognizes the
right of a body of laborers to strike, just as it recognizes
the right of revolution to secure the general welfare.
Formerly a combination of workmen in a strike
was treated as a conspiracy and punished as such. Now
the general rule is absolute freedom of combination
with rigorous repression of fraud and violence. This
enables any body of men to make a serious test of the
conditions of a labor market, at the risk, primarily, of
their own welfare, but with serious strain upon the
general good. It leaves room for the possible breaking
down of old customs, which are stronger than law, and
it sometimes proves, like a war for liberty, a means of
great enlightenment to those who take part in it. It is
properly held as the last resort in the struggle for fair
recognition of the rights and necessities of wage-earners.
</p>

<p>
It is noticeable that the tendency to strikes among
the more skilled workmen is diminishing, and that the
mass of communities are weighing their own interests
more carefully as they see the general destructiveness of
the method. At present strikes are expected among
laborers of least skill, where they are, from usual conditions,
least effective. Strikes are frequent among
coal miners, where wages are liable to reach the lowest
possible mark because of the ease of competition from
all parts of the world, though the effect of such strikes
<pb n='262'/><anchor id='Pg262'/>
in bettering the condition of miners has scarcely been
felt. The fact that destruction of property and the
natural waste from strikes is so widely distributed
among workmen and consumers retards popular sympathy,
and the fact that strikes increase the risk of
capital employed, and actually reduce the amount of
capital in use, diminishes the chance of increasing wages
or comfort in those employments where they are likely
to occur. It seems evident that some better remedy for
oppressive conditions of wage-earners must take the
place of strikes.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The boycott.</hi>&mdash;The boycott is a comparatively recent
device for enlarging the field of combat to include not
only the employs of an establishment but the consumers
of its products. This is especially applicable to
those industries the products of which are largely consumed
by wage-earners, whose sympathies can be depended
upon to carry it out. It asks all sympathizers
to refuse to purchase products from the employer or
firm attacked. A great bakery, for instance, can easily
be ruined by a boycott, if its customers are chiefly
wage-earners. It is easily applied in cases where custom
has allowed the use of a label from some organization
of workers. It has been attempted with some
success against a railroad so related to other roads as to
require the services of sympathizers with its striking
employs to carry its freight to final destination. An
instance of its widest application is in an effort to persuade
the people of a city to refuse to patronize the
street-car system.
</p>

<p>
The warlike nature of this method is apparent in
<pb n='263'/><anchor id='Pg263'/>
the effort to use terror as one means of persuasion. In
this case it uniformly overreaches itself in destroying
public sympathy with the strikers. That it has a possible
place in the struggle of wage-earners for their
rights cannot be disputed, since it corresponds with the
nature of a blockade or a siege in other warfare. But
its nature as a method of warfare is equally clear, and
its use in the interests of humanity belongs, with all
war, as a last resort.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The lockout.</hi>&mdash;Lockout is a name given to a method
employed by managers to prevent the continuance of a
strike by aid of the sympathy of employs not directly
interested. It often happens that a comparatively
small body of workmen in a great factory strike for
higher wages, and are sustained in their strike by the
sympathy and support of other workmen in the same
factory. Under these conditions the employer is
tempted to stop all work by a sudden closing of all
shops, that the pressure of suffering among a large
body of wage-earners may force the smaller body to
accept the old conditions. The lockout seldom gains a
popular sympathy, for the reason that employers appear
to be using this method of warfare from a superior position
of power. And yet no one can dispute the general
right of employers to control of their business.
Such a sudden stopping of business without an attack
by a strike or some similar provocation would be considered
inhuman, and popular sympathy would be
wholly with the laborers and consumers interested.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>General evils of such conflicts.</hi>&mdash;The incidental
effects of such violent opposition between profit-makers
<pb n='264'/><anchor id='Pg264'/>
and wage-earners are certainly detrimental to all interests.
The great multitude of farmers throughout
the country depend for welfare upon the body of people
using farm products, and all the waste of power
from enforced idleness of wage-earners, managers and
machinery is shared by farmers through diminished
power of the rest of the world as consumers. In only
a few instances have strikes affected agriculture directly,
partly because the relations of employer and employed
are so largely personal; partly because the supply of
agricultural laborers for the season is usually large; but
chiefly because wage-earners upon farms in this country
expect eventually to become themselves proprietors, and
so no separate organization is probable. In some countries,
however, where wage-earners in farming communities
are a class by themselves, a strike has been the
only method by which the barrier of custom and law,
built up through many generations, could be broken.
The great agricultural strike in England will always
be remembered as having elevated the standard of labor
and living in that country. It is to the interest of all
farmers to cultivate a better understanding between
employers and employed than can be maintained with
any general expectation of strikes, boycotts, lockouts
or similar warlike methods of settling fair wages.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Trades' unions.</hi>&mdash;The organizations known as trades'
unions, in which the wage-earners in any particular
kind of business unite for self-protection, have had a
gradually widening influence upon the relation of managers
to employs. Once they were characterized as
<q>machinery by which 10 per cent of the working classes
<pb n='265'/><anchor id='Pg265'/>
combine to rob 90 per cent,</q> because the advantage
secured usually comes out of the consumers of products.
But today reasonable doubts of the general advantage
of a well-managed trades' union have disappeared. If
once they seemed a conspiracy against society in general,
they are now recognized as a part of the general
progress in mutual recognition of rights and privileges.
It seems right to expect from them still larger usefulness,
with a clearer perception of their importance. It
is evident that they contribute somewhat to general
intelligence of their members, and so far as this is true
they help toward greater efficiency. At the same time
they help to maintain stability of employment and stability
of other conditions surrounding labor.
</p>

<p>
A brief enumeration of ends they may serve directly
will help to appreciate their importance. First, they
can as truly estimate the market value of wages by
gathering statistics from all parts of the country and
from other countries as can any organization in commerce
estimate the market value of produce. Second,
they can serve as an employment bureau in furnishing
information of places where work is wanted, thus equalizing
the advantages as well as the burdens of their
associates. Third, they can make more uniform and
more satisfactory the customs in regard to the length of
a day's work or privileges of any kind associated with
the work as perquisites. Fourth, they can, if they will,
find the true gradation of skill and of wages among
workmen, so as to establish a natural line of advancement.
Fifth, they rightly do, and can still further,
serve for mutual support in cases of illness, and for protection
<pb n='266'/><anchor id='Pg266'/>
of a community against fraud in pleas of poverty.
Sixth, they may easily and properly, if they will,
provide for insurance of character, both as men and as
workmen, by issuing certificates, and under proper provision
giving bonds, such as are required in many positions
of trust. Seventh, they may extend their operations
even to the taking of jobs that require a variety
of work continuing through a period of time. Eighth,
they can, under most favorable circumstances, undertake
various stock enterprises, especially coperative
stores, thus securing an incentive to saving, and diminishing
the spirit of antagonism against the profit-makers.
Finally, though they have the best possible
organization for a successful strike, if necessary, they
can subordinate this disposition toward warfare to a
broader machinery for fair consideration of all interests
and for individual arbitration of rights.
</p>

<p>
Such organizations, under good management, win
the respect of all, and find a recognition of their
methods satisfactory. Farmers' clubs and granges,
though far from reaching ideal efficiency, furnish suggestions
of the general utility. Unfortunately, these
organizations, having little if any basis of capital, have
seldom been incorporated under the laws of the state.
Could the powers and purposes of such organizations
be established upon a basis of statute law, the range of
their usefulness might be greatly increased. They
might even sustain a method for enforcing in the courts
the collection of wages, where the single wage-earner
often accepts the half loaf in a compromise rather than
meet the expense and loss of time involved in a law suit.
<pb n='267'/><anchor id='Pg267'/>
Certainly the establishment of legal relations between
the trades' union and the state would give to it a character
and stability most likely to promote all interests.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Federations of labor.</hi>&mdash;The so-called federations of
labor, in which practically the only bond of union between
individuals is the fact that all are wage-earners,
have so far worked out but a small part of the problem
involved in their existence. They have the advantage
of uniting large numbers and a variety of interests;
but they have the disadvantage of subordinating all
other interests to the supposed conflict between employers
and employed. Their tendency is almost certain
toward lowering standards of efficiency, and
attempting by class legislation to get the advantage of
mere numbers.
</p>

<p>
It is almost impossible that the organization shall
be kept out of the field of bargains in politics and contrivance
for special legislation, demoralizing to the
whole country. Too often the votes of members are
made a bribe for securing certain favors. In the nature
of the case, they sustain a body of officers whose chief
business is in danger of becoming that of either political
agitators or political bosses. The machinery of
organization is liable to reduce the independence of individuals.
The organization itself is liable to demand
a personal subordination almost equivalent to military
rule, and the badge of the society may mark a man as
under direction of authority. Even in questions where
the majority rule, the force of the federation requires
the caucus principle of absolute adherence, even though
the majority represents the weakest and least intelligent
<pb n='268'/><anchor id='Pg268'/>
part of the organization. The demoralizing effect of
such methods, including wholesale trading of opinions,
is liable to debase citizenship, and so to diminish the
individual self-respect, which is the highest possible
protection for laborers.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Courts of arbitration.</hi>&mdash;Arbitration between employers
and employed, in cases of serious misunderstanding,
has long been advocated as a wise means of
settling differences. The obstacles to its general, voluntary
adoption are considerable. Employers object because
it involves the admission of an outsider as a
judge of their business methods. The employs object
because they fear the sympathy of arbitrators with the
superior intelligence, wealth and power of employers.
Yet there seems no good reason why a representative
body of men, chosen for character and ability, should
not be appealed to by both parties in a contest which
has already broken up the natural relations of business.
As has been shown, the whole community suffers in
every interruption of production and trade, and so far
the community has the right, and should have the legal
privilege, of insisting upon the fairest and quickest
means of settling the controversy. In far less important
difficulties between individuals, society insists
that either individual shall have the right to bring the
other into court.
</p>

<p>
Society is waiting only to settle the best form of a
court of arbitration for labor difficulties. The trend of
popular judgment is in favor of a well-organized commission,
having the dignity if not the authority of a
supreme court. That such commissions have not generally
<pb n='269'/><anchor id='Pg269'/>
come up to the ideal is due largely to political
influence among leaders of organizations, so that the
commissioners become the choice of a faction rather than
of the people. It is conceivable that the functions of
judges in a series of state courts may be so enlarged
under carefully framed laws as to include the duty of
arbitration in labor contests.
</p>

<p>
If the people are not yet ready for compulsory settlement
of such questions, the time is surely coming,
under the enormous aggregation of industries and the
immense combination of employs, when the judgment
of the people expressed in due form of law will control
both employer and employ. The whole world is recognizing
methods of arbitration as better than warfare.
It will soon insist that these minor wars within the
commonwealth shall cease.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Profit-sharing.</hi>&mdash;Some general system of preventing
antipathy between profit-makers and wage-earners
seems desirable. Certain interests are known to be
mutual, and both employers and employed welcome any
system by which those mutual interests can further the
success of the business. Among the methods proposed,
and sometimes successfully employed, the most prominent
is profit-sharing. This implies on the part of
employers after payment of current wages a distribution,
at stated times, far enough apart to secure a fair
average in the profit and loss account, of some portion
of net profits among all the wage-earners. The per
cent of net profits to be thus distributed is matter of
agreement, and the basis of distribution is naturally the
scale of wages accepted by the employs in their contract
<pb n='270'/><anchor id='Pg270'/>
for employment. The particular methods of applying
these principles vary with circumstances, but in all
cases depend upon the actual confidence of employs
in their employers. The effects seem to be good, bad
or indifferent, in proportion to the general intelligence
and stability of the employs. With really skilled
workmen, established in homes and feeling responsibility
as citizens, profit-sharing stimulates to the highest
energy. With weak and irresponsible wage-earners
it is likely to bring waste and sometimes false notions
in regard to wealth production.
</p>

<p>
The weakness of the whole system is the lack of
provision for fairly sharing burdens in the constantly
recurring periods of loss. If the employ's share of the
profits is consumed upon comfort or luxury, he is even
less prepared than without such profits to meet the loss
of not only profits, but his wages, in times of depression.
If these additional earnings shared as profits
become an insurance to the wage-earner, a sort of reserve
for sustenance and safety in the necessary times of
weakness in any industry, they stimulate the best characteristics
of saving and character-building, and cultivate
a disposition to meet all emergencies in patience.
It is quite customary, therefore, in any system of profit-sharing
to provide also an investment for the employs
in a reserve fund, from which the necessities of the
business and the needs of the whole community of
workers may be met. Such a method, if wisely managed,
makes the interests of the employs coincide with
those of the employer. If added to this there is ample
opportunity for suggestions as to enlargement and improvement
<pb n='271'/><anchor id='Pg271'/>
of the business in all minuti, the best abilities
of the workmen are called out and the heartiest
sympathy is possible. There still remains against such
a system the objections, that losses are not shared as
truly as profits, and that employs are liable to require
too intimate an acquaintance with the condition of their
employer's business to foster the success of the enterprise.
Its successful application is so far confined to
lines of business easily comprehended and direct in
their methods.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Sliding scales of wages.</hi>&mdash;Another device for connecting
directly with the fluctuations of business any
compensation of wage-earners is called the sliding scale
of wages. This is an attempt to make each sharer in
production depend directly upon the price of products
in the market for rate of wages. The wages of different
workers are adjusted to each other by contract upon
some ratio established by experience, and then the wages
of each are made to vary from month to month with
the average price of the finished product in the general
market. This subjects all parties directly to the fluctuations
of the business in both profit and loss. Its success
is dependent upon the confidence placed by employs
in the fairness of the adjustment. It stimulates
to highest productiveness when prices are high, and
checks production slightly when prices are low. But
it provides no direct method for readjusting business
under the pressure of great changes in methods of management,
nor does it save from strong antipathy against
the improvement of a business by labor-saving machinery.
Its successful employment depends in general
<pb n='272'/><anchor id='Pg272'/>
upon the character and efficiency of employers and the
general intelligence and enterprise of employs.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Coperative industry.</hi>&mdash;Coperative industries are
sometimes advocated as a complete solution of labor
difficulties. The system implies a union of independent
workmen, all of whom shall be sharers in the capital
employed as well as in the labor involved, including
management. The management of the enterprise
is entrusted to chosen members of the coperative
force, and wages or salaries are fixed according to
abilities employed, essentially upon the scale of current
wages outside the coperative enterprise. All profits are
then shared among all members of the association in
proportion to their wages. But an investment of such
profits in the growth of the business is an essential part
of the plan.
</p>

<p>
This method satisfies the ideal of equity in division
of wealth produced, provided the basis of adjustment
between classes of wage-earners is accepted as fair. The
principal difficulty in this respect arises in reference to
the salary of managers and overseers. Such salaries are
less clearly defined in the labor market, being usually
complicated with profit-making, and are liable to be
considered out of all proportion with the wages of other
workers. If underestimated, the marked abilities required
in management are likely to be withdrawn from
the enterprise for independent management in profit-making.
</p>

<p>
The chief difficulties, however, with coperative production
grow from the want of confidence of the multitude
of shareholders in their managers. Few kinds of
<pb n='273'/><anchor id='Pg273'/>
business can be carried on successfully under a body of
absolute rules, and fewer still will bear the delays and
hesitation required for a general consultation of many
authorities. The comparatively few instances of genuine
success in coperative production are due, in the
first place, to the comparative simplicity of the undertaking;
and, in the second place, to the genius of some
organizer, who has been willing to contribute his superior
abilities for the sake of the enterprise itself rather
than the compensation.
</p>

<p>
A few principles may be fairly drawn from the general
experience. First, all shareholders must be actual
workers, in some way responsible for a part of the production.
Second, the influence of each shareholder
must in some way be held in direct ratio to his share in
the production. Third, the system of accounts must be
such as all can fairly understand. Fourth, the management
must be entrusted to a chosen few, whose interests
are chiefly in the business itself, whose character secures
the confidence of all, and whose administrative ability is
not too much hampered by rules.
</p>

<p>
The opportunity for coperative industry is nowhere
greater than in a community of farmers. Butter and
cheese factories, cold storage plants and milk stations
invite the coperation of interested farmers upon the
simplest possible basis of agreement. The multiplication
of such enterprises is desirable, and the farmers
of every community may profitably study the conditions
of success. The greatest obstacle heretofore,
has been the want of competent management, and the
distrust aroused and maintained by the inefficiency
<pb n='274'/><anchor id='Pg274'/>
and fraud of managers. It is possible, too, that farmers
generally do not recognize the actual importance of
executive abilities, and are unwilling to pay the salary
actually earned by a thoroughly competent man.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Legal restrictions as to labor.</hi>&mdash;It is natural for those
who suffer in the struggle for better wages to seek the
support of law in restrictions upon contracts as to wages,
hours of employment and conditions of comfort. The
principle that governments must protect the weak
against the strong in any community is a thoroughly
established one. Yet its applications are subject to continual
readjustment. Multitudes of experiments have
been tried, affecting the whole range of inequalities in
wages and perquisites. In many instances, wages have
been fixed by law, and that for long periods of time, but
without relieving in any respect the actual force of competition
among wage-earners themselves. Indeed, the
tendency of very explicit enactments is to weaken the
individual ability of wage-earners by destroying ambition.
Wages fixed by law are necessarily as low as the
average would be in a free competition; otherwise production
is hindered and capital is diminished. With this
low average any worker of more than average ability
gains nothing by exerting his ability, but does gain ease
by neglect. Thus enforced uniformity reduces the
energy of the producing forces and practically closes the
doors of advancement from wage-earning to profit-making.
</p>

<p>
A similar effect is found in efforts to regulate the
hours of labor by law, except where the law simply defines
the meaning of a day's work or emphasizes the importance
<pb n='275'/><anchor id='Pg275'/>
of public health and vitality rather than equality
in distribution. Humanity has done much in reducing
hours of toil, and may yet do more; but it will be for
humanity's welfare in larger considerations than are
measured by money. The eight-hour question, so constantly
agitated in certain callings, concerns the entire
people just so far,&mdash;and no farther,&mdash;as the general
health and energy of the community depend upon it.
Farming communities stand aloof from its application;
and yet there is no question that the farmer's home
might be even better than it is for developing physical
and mental vigor, if hours of toil were more carefully
restricted to meet the conditions of healthful growth and
activity.
</p>

<p>
Other conditions, affecting the employment of children
and women, are proper subjects of restriction by
law; for these also involve the consideration of general
welfare in the elevation of the physical, mental and
moral characteristics of the race. Upon the same plane
must be put all legal restrictions upon methods and machinery,
reducing the dangers from accident and promoting
the comfort of employs. All restrictions serve
their purpose only so long as they are appreciated as
having their reason for existence in general welfare.
The rights of an employer, under contract with his employ,
like the rights of a parent in control of his child,
are subject to the law of good will; and the world will
yet find a way to make its restrictions felt wherever
recklessness or carelessness or greed destroys good
will.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Nationalization of industry.</hi>&mdash;A somewhat popular
<pb n='276'/><anchor id='Pg276'/>
suggestion in solution of labor difficulties is the so-called
nationalization of industry. This, in general
terms, is a proposition to equalize compensation and
avoid fluctuation in both wages and employment by
public control of all industries under official management.
While this involves some principles of socialism,
more properly discussed in connection with consumption
of wealth, its relations to productive industry may be
briefly presented here. The plans proposed are as yet
expressed only in most general terms. Even the method
of bringing about such a revolution of thought, feeling
and action has not been devised. Still less ready is
anyone to point out the details of a plan for the actual
production. The nearest associated ideas are found in
governmental services through a post office department
or the management of a system of transportation.
Most advocates of the method overlook the fact that in
such government administration of partial industries the
law of competition is still operative between these enterprises
and the universal industry of the people.
</p>

<p>
The difficulties in governmental management under
present conditions are anything but small, especially
under popular rule, where the dominion of party and
the influence of position are all-powerful. Under
monarchial rule the organization of such industries becomes
like that of an army, in which arbitrary power
predominates. It seems easy to see that any effort to
solve the problems of labor employment by national
control involves finally the arbitrary decision of power,
in adjustment of both duties and compensation. The
management by officials, however those officials are appointed,
<pb n='277'/><anchor id='Pg277'/>
is not necessarily wiser, more efficient or more
benevolent than the management by interested men,
whose life is in natural contact, through business relations,
with employs. Those who have had experience
with official control under popular government are not
likely to expect a readjustment of all interests from the
standpoint of politicians to be marked by either universal
good will or universal common sense. It is reasonable
to suppose that wherever general welfare in actual use
of wealth can be best promoted by public control, such
control will come through the free exercise of individual
judgment with reference to the work in hand.
While there ought to be no objection on the part of any
to a government enterprise which can be shown to serve
in that way the greatest good of all, nobody ought to
assume that the nationalization of industries is for the
greatest good. Each great undertaking will require its
own proof, not only of the welfare to be expected, but
of the practical means by which that end can be
secured.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The spirit of equity chief.</hi>&mdash;The trend of experience
goes to show that true economic interests, not only of
the community but of individuals, are in accord with
general principles of welfare. It seems certain that communities
paying the highest wages are those which gain
the highest return for labor in product, and maintain
the highest general rates of profit. In general, also,
those enterprises which are controlled with most care
for equity in wages and for the general welfare of employs
are most stable under fluctuations of business
and most genuinely successful. While wealth may be
<pb n='278'/><anchor id='Pg278'/>
accumulated unjustly in the hands of those who oppress
their neighbors, there can be no doubt that in long
periods of time the best adjustment of all interests gives
not only the truest welfare but the largest wealth and
the best use of it. The spirit of equity must eventually
control both managers and wage-earners, and no other
disposition can furnish a final solution of the problems
of distribution between employers and employed. If
employers are greedy, the wrong will not be righted by
an equal display of greed on the part of wage-earners.
The spirit of true philanthropy is the only proper spirit
for discussion of these questions.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='279'/><anchor id='Pg279'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XX. Proceeds Of Capital: Interest And Rent.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Practical distinctions.</hi>&mdash;The terms interest and rent
are distinguished in actual practice by the fact that
interest is paid for the use of capital in some circulating
form, while rent is paid for the use of fixed capital.
One who borrows anything, expecting to return not the
thing itself but its equivalent in value, is said to borrow
upon interest. One who borrows the same thing, expecting
to return the identical thing, is said to pay
rent for its use. Thus interest is paid for control of
circulating capital until an equivalent is returned, and
rent is paid for control of fixed capital until the same
articles are returned in prime condition. A farmer who
borrows a mowing machine from the warehouse, giving
his note for its value, pays, when he returns that value
at the end of the year, interest upon his note. If he
borrows the same machine from his neighbor under contract
to return the machine in good condition at the end
of the season, he pays rent for its use. The young man
who borrows his neighbor's farm, expecting at the end
of five years to make that farm his own, gives a mortgage
note, promising at the end of five years to return an
equivalent value for the farm, with annual interest.
If, on the contrary, he expects to return the farm itself
<pb n='280'/><anchor id='Pg280'/>
at the end of five years, without reduction in value, he
makes a lease, embodying this agreement, with annual
rent for use of the farm.
</p>

<p>
Both interest and rent are liable to involve the element
of risk as to the proper return of the valuable thing
promised, and to that extent they partake of the nature
of profits. The true interest and rent are independent
of the possible risk, and have to do simply with the advantage
naturally accruing to the possessor of wealth
from its use as capital, and forming one of the chief
reasons for accumulating wealth at all.
</p>

<p>
In technical discussion the term rent is usually confined
to the compensation secured from appropriation of
space, peculiar location, natural fertility, mineral deposits,
water privileges, or any natural advantage to be
used in production. In this limited meaning rent is
confined to the advantage gained by the owner of wealth
in any form so affected by the law of supply and demand
as to gain a scarcity value. The term unearned increment,&mdash;meaning
an increase of value without cost of
exertion,&mdash;has been largely applied to such cases, and
illustrations are taken chiefly from the ownership of land
and similar natural forces. The same unearned increment,
however, accrues to the possessor of any article of
value or any personal attainment, which through increasing
wants of the community becomes, on that
account alone, more valuable in market. Thus a bin
full of wheat, saved from a year of plenty to a year of
scarcity, has gained a value abnormal,&mdash;that is, from the
fact of its scarcity. Yet no one would think of applying
the term rent in such a ease, because the foresight which
<pb n='281'/><anchor id='Pg281'/>
stored the grain gains its compensation in profits. If the
same kind of foresight has plotted a city upon wild
lands, and held a portion of those plotted lots until a
crowded population competes for their use, such wealth
is said to be gained upon the principle of rent. The
difference seems to be chiefly in the greater permanence
and the gradual advancement of the profits secured.
</p>

<p>
The every-day operations of a farming community
illustrate both interest and rent in all their complications
and definitions. Every farmer, in estimating the cost of
his wheat crop, may properly calculate both the interest
on his capital invested in tools, teams, machinery and
wages, and the rent of his land, keeping distinct accounts
of interest and rent; or he may combine in one
account as interest the use of capital in machinery and
land. If he owns the whole establishment, he is likely
to combine both interest and rent with the return for
his foresight and energy in managing the farm under
the name profits. All these returns, however, come for
different reasons, though under the same general principle
of values expressed in the law of supply and demand.
The farmer working a rented farm and the one
working a mortgaged farm are alike paying both rent
and interest, since every farm involves both the wealth
accumulated by exertion and the wealth advanced by
increasing population. While the owner of the mortgaged
farm apparently pays interest, if at the end of the
term of the mortgage the farm is returned to its former
owner by foreclosure, the result is that the mortgagee,
while nominally owner of the land, has simply been a
renter. In a fair settlement of equities he will have paid
<pb n='282'/><anchor id='Pg282'/>
for the use of the land he has cultivated. Interest and
rent are thus seen to be terms separated rather by peculiarities
of application than by difference of principle.
It is proper, however, to treat them separately for the
sake of more perfect understanding of the conditions
applicable to each.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='283'/><anchor id='Pg283'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XXI. Principles Of Interest.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Reasons for interest.</hi>&mdash;The propriety of interest
under any circumstances has often been questioned, and
its rightfulness is still bitterly disputed. Both church
and state have at times denounced the receiving of interest
as criminal. Yet in actual practice of commercial
life throughout the world interest has been sustained
in all ages. The Jewish law prohibited interest
between neighbors, where the reason for borrowing was
assumed to be poverty, but authorized it in dealings
with foreigners, where the transaction was assumed to be
in trade. The principle upon which interest in all productive
industry is actually founded is that capital,
gained by exertion and saved by self-control, secures to
its present possessor such advantages of time and choice
of use for his abilities as can be given by nothing else.
In the study of production we have seen that time-saving
is an important result of capital in its various
forms. A carpenter's kit of tools represents a value in
use equal at least to the time he might consume in
making them. He can afford to keep them for another's
use only while they bring to him the advantage
of that time-saving. His neighbor is willing to secure
him in that advantage by paying him for the use of the
<pb n='284'/><anchor id='Pg284'/>
tools all, or nearly all, that he gains by using tools over
what he would have without them. The borrower will
still be the gainer by opportunity to do work not possible
without the tools. The bargain between borrower
and lender, like any bargain, is a fair one only when
both are benefited. The limits of fairness in the deal
are naturally reached when a clear understanding of all
conditions is had in open market. Neither borrower
nor lender can take advantage of the other without
fraud. Neither is under obligation to give to the other
without an equivalent. The whole question rests upon
service rendered, as truly as in any other bargain.
</p>

<p>
A large proportion of the opposition to interest
arises from a misconception of the phrase, <q>borrowed
money.</q> The fact is that borrowing and lending have
to do chiefly with other forms of wealth. Most notes
are given for the transfer of all sorts of property under
a promise to return equal value in the future. Money
may not enter into the transaction at all, except as the
standard of value is in terms of money. Even when
money is exchanged for a note, the borrower hastens to
part with the money for the tools or provisions which
make him a profitable producer. In payment of his
note he offers money again, simply because it commands
every desirable form of value for the owner of the
wealth. If a farmer wants a wagon without the present
means to buy, he offers the dealer his promise to pay
after six months, when the corn crop just planted shall
have matured. If the dealer cannot afford to hold the
note because he needs the capital in his business, that
others may be supplied with wagons, either the farmer
<pb n='285'/><anchor id='Pg285'/>
or the dealer carries the note to some one who <emph>can</emph> afford
to wait for returns, which may be either a banker,
whose business provides just such accommodation, or a
neighboring farmer who has just sold his wool. In
either case, the first farmer borrows what he wants in
carrying on his business, and at the end of six months,
through a similar transaction of finding some one ready to
take his product, pays his note with corn. (See p. <ref target='Pg164'>164</ref>.)
</p>

<p>
Interest is never confined to money transactions, nor
even to those in which terms of money are used. All
owners of productive wealth gain interest in its use as
truly as in lending it. The farmer is not a money-lender
in general, because his wealth will bring him
larger profit by its use as stock or machinery. Even
when he borrows from his neighbors, it is possible that
he secures a larger interest, though he calls it profit,
than he pays the lender. Interest is often paid in kind.
The laughable story of borrowing a hen from one
neighbor and a sitting of eggs from another, to be
returned after a time with advantage, is actually paralleled
by some transactions. A friend of mine having
a magnificent pasture agreed with his neighbor, who
owned a fine flock of ewes, to pasture that flock for
three years, returning at the end of that time just twice
the number of sheep received. He explained to me
that he had made a great bargain, since the wool would
pay for the use of the pasture, and he should have at
the end of the three years a flock about equal to the
flock he returned. This bargain involved interest at
the rate of 33- per cent, without any terms of money,
and an indefinite profit to the owner of the pasture in
<pb n='286'/><anchor id='Pg286'/>
addition to an average price for such use. This profit
is his return for the risk undertaken; since he promised
to double the flock under any circumstances, and if foot-rot
or scab had ruined the flock under his management,
he would still have the same obligation toward
the owner.
</p>

<p>
Such bargains will always be made so long as both
parties are benefited, for no possible construction of
laws and no diatribes of fanatics can prevent them.
Any calculation as to the enormous growth of wealth by
interest is more than balanced by a similar calculation
of the multiplication of wealth by production. If
Abraham's shekels at compound interest make an impossible
sum of money, Abraham's flock of sheep with
the ordinary rate of increase makes an equally impossible
worldful.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Varying rates of interest.</hi>&mdash;Interest rates are subject
to fluctuation and variations under the natural relations
of borrowers and lenders very much as are prices of
commodities. Variations, in comparison of different
regions, are due to several causes. In any community
where enterprise is great and industrial forces are unusually
productive, the interest rates are high as compared
with another community with few competitors in
industrial enterprise and less productive forces. Thus
in countries having new land producing large crops
with moderate exertion and an increasing population
ready to put in such crops, the return for the use of
capital in provisions, stock and machinery is great, and
the lender gets high rates of interest. If, added to this
apparent productiveness, there are risks of failure from
<pb n='287'/><anchor id='Pg287'/>
droughts, storms and injurious insects, the bargain is
more favorable to the lender in expressed terms, though
it may be less favorable in actual results. Thus risk
enters practically into calculations of interest, whatever
the circumstances.
</p>

<p>
Interest varies in the same region with a variation of
energy and productive enterprise or of the speculative
spirit undertaking great improvements, and on the other
hand with any change of circumstances affecting universal
credit. Distrust on the part of anybody reduces
the readiness with which borrowers find lenders. In
times of widespread lack of confidence, when all credit
becomes debt, the borrower is likely to offer unusual
rates of interest. And the few who are willing to lend
at all expect enormous profits in such interest.
</p>

<p>
Similar variations in rates of interest are found between
different classes of borrowers, due to the variation
of risk. Thus promises to pay on demand, with
personal security of two good paymasters, will usually
be accepted at very low rates of interest, since the
owner of wealth so loaned feels sure of having the
wealth when he wants it. Government loans in times
of peace and prosperity being essentially without risk,
approach very near the same low rate of interest, since
the owner of these securities believes himself at any
time able to command the use of his wealth for any
purpose by a transfer of these securities. If for any
reason, official or legislative, public confidence is disturbed,
rates of interest on such securities rise proportionally
through the sale at a discount. Even a law
prohibiting such sale would have exactly the contrary
<pb n='288'/><anchor id='Pg288'/>
effect to that intended, because of creating additional
distrust. Loans upon time, if secured by productive
landed estate not subject to unusual risks, can usually be
made at moderate rates, and form a fair basis for judging
the normal interest in any region. Loans secured
by chattel mortgage bring higher rates, because the
chattels involved are a less certain means of payment
than landed estate. Loans secured upon unproductive
lands, whether in prospective farms or city lots, are
made at high rates, not only because these lands fail to
furnish in themselves the means of interest payment,
but because they represent the speculative energy of
their owners with unmeasured risk. All these variations
and fluctuations are found in every community,
and grow out of the natural wants of borrowers and
the natural feelings of lenders. Custom may have something
to do with rates in special cases, as it has to do
with wages and retail prices, but in the range of frequent
dealing between borrowers and lenders rates
follow the higgling of the market as truly as prices of
commodities.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Usury laws.</hi>&mdash;It has been the custom for ages to
distinguish between interest and usury, interest being
supposed to be a fair payment for use of borrowed
wealth and usury a larger payment in the distress of a
borrower. Usury once meant only use, the equivalent
of interest, but since it was once prohibited by law in
England, the name is now attached to what is still prohibited
by law, an interest above a definite rate prescribed
by statute. The object of such legal restrictions
is evidently protection of the borrower against
<pb n='289'/><anchor id='Pg289'/>
extortion. Yet it is practically proved by experience
of the world that such restrictions operate against
the borrower by limiting lenders in open market and
sometimes closing the market entirely. The would-be
borrower, under adverse conditions in the market, is
obliged to find in some byway a lender whose scruples
against infringement upon the law may be overcome by
extra payment. Under such circumstances there is no
market rate, and borrowers bind themselves in numerous
ways to special payments not in direct conflict with
the letter of the law. Evasions of restrictions under
such circumstances are inevitable. A farmer buys a
hundred-dollar horse, giving a note, payable in one
year without interest, for $120; or he sells his note to a
neighbor at what he will give; or he goes to a broker
and pays him a commission for securing a loan at the
legal rate of interest. Even at a bank, prohibited by
law from taking more than the legal discount on the
pain of losing its charter, a borrower may give his note
for $500, tacitly agreeing to leave on deposit a fifth of
the sum, thus paying interest on $500 for the use of
$400.
</p>

<p>
All these forms of evasion are easily adopted with
very little possibility of conviction, even when usury is
charged. Even in the most flagrant violation of laws
the chances of conviction are greatly restricted by the
fact that a prosecuting witness, who, after making a
contract in violation of law, takes advantage of that
law to violate his contract, destroys all credit for himself,
and so comes under the ban of society. The best
methods of public restriction against extortion of any
<pb n='290'/><anchor id='Pg290'/>
kind in interest, in rent or in prices of commodities
are those that provide for publicity of contracts. Where
no legal restrictions upon rates of interest are fixed,
current rates are much more likely to be public and
widely advertised, and extortion is less possible than
where the law encourages secret contracts by the need
of evasion. It is quite possible that society will find a
way of securing against the extortion of pawn-shops
and secret brokerage by a public organization competing
honestly for the same patronage. Such companies
have been organized in a few cities with success
in meeting the wants of the distressed, under such restrictions
of charter and management as insure fair
dealing. It seems as possible to regulate such matters
by license and inspection as it is to control the hack-men
of a whole city.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Loan associations.</hi>&mdash;It is proper in this connection
to refer to loan associations, the growth of recent years.
The purpose of such associations is direct coperation
in borrowing and lending among neighbors similarly
situated as to property. They are especially adapted to
assist wage-earners in securing comfortable homes, for
which they can pay gradually from their earnings. The
system, however, has been widely extended, to the advantage
of different classes of property owners, even to
the establishment of coperative banks among farmers.
The essentials to success and safety in such associations are,
first, that they shall be strictly local, confined
to territory within which mutual acquaintance can give
a fair basis for genuine credit; second, the objects
sought by individual borrowers must be fairly equal in
<pb n='291'/><anchor id='Pg291'/>
risk as well as in ends to be served; third, the management
must be thoroughly trustworthy, with a genuine
interest of all shareholders in the selection of officers;
fourth, all shareholders should have similar relations to
the association as both borrowers and lenders, and each
shareholder's responsibility should cease at the final settlement
of his obligation; fifth, provision should be
made for frequent auditing of accounts, official reports
and inspection.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Uses of interest.</hi>&mdash;In closing the subject of interest,
it is well to recall the fact that interest exists in the very
nature of productive energies, and that ability to
transfer the use of property in any form of capital without
transferring the interest is most useful to society.
It sustains the aged, who must otherwise be wholly dependent,
and the childhood of the race in all development
of body, mind and soul. Interest sustains the mass of
educational and charitable institutions, as well as the
individual life of multitudes whose present earnings
could not keep body and soul together. Moreover, the
possibility of paying interest secures to the enterprising
young men of the world the opportunity to make
their highest energies productive. Thus the matter of
interest pervades the thrift of society as well as the sustenance,
and cultivates everywhere that present economy
which provides for the rainy day. The fact that nearly
one-fifteenth of the population of the United States are
depositors in savings banks alone proves the extent and
importance of interest to the general welfare. With
added facilities for depositing small savings in postal
savings banks, the advantage would be still more widely
<pb n='292'/><anchor id='Pg292'/>
felt, and the general economy in the use of both earnings
and capital would be promoted. All this extension of interest-bearing
increases the tendency everywhere noticed
to a diminution of current rates. With a multiplication
of capital in any community, the rates of wages increase,
while the rates of interest diminish. Both tendencies
are natural effects of the same cause.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='293'/><anchor id='Pg293'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XXII. Principles Of Land Rent.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Rent values of land.</hi>&mdash;The general character of rent,
as connected with the use of fixed capital and so associated
with interest, has already been touched upon. In
that sense it depends upon the fact that possession of
wealth is universally an advantage in production of future
wealth and is subject to all the peculiarities affecting
interest. But land rent, as represented in the value
of farms, city lots, mineral claims, fisheries, water
privileges, wharves, etc., has peculiarities of its own.
Its connection directly with rural wealth in the value
of farm lands makes it of special importance in this discussion.
While rent, as such, is comparatively unimportant
to farming interests in the United States, where most
of the land is worked by its owners, the principle is involved
as fully in the transfer value of farms as it is in
countries where land is almost universally rented for
farm purposes, like England and Ireland. It is simply
necessary to remember that the rent question in such a
country as England, where land is seldom transferred
from owner to owner (but all values are expressed in the
terms of annual rental), is quite different in form from
the question in our country, where transfer of landed
property is free and common, and the rental is regulated
<pb n='294'/><anchor id='Pg294'/>
largely by current rates of interest upon land values.
In England, too, the rent question involves long standing
relations between the people and landed proprietors
who, for generation after generation, have been rulers
of the people as well as landlords, and are still
the natural magistrates over the renters upon their estates.
Yet the principal occasion for rents in such
countries is exactly the same as that for varying values
of land in the United States. Peculiar intricacies of
methods of rent-paying and of terms in leases, varying
with the customs of different countries, have little importance
in the United States, except for comparisons.
</p>

<p>
The United States afford superior advantages for the
study of land values fairly independent of restrictive
laws or customs. The rapid settlement of wild lands by
farmers and the rapid building of cities under free competition
give the fairest illustration of tendencies in land
values to be found in the world. The fact that the
government for the past fifty years has encouraged the
settlement of new land at the bare cost of establishing
ownership makes the problem almost as simple as if
the government had no voice in the distribution.
</p>

<p>
It may be proper to recall the conditions under
which any individual has been able to secure the absolute
control of land as a proprietor: First, by premption,
involving temporary residence until the land
is purchased and patented, at the nominal price of $1.25
an acre, or $2.50 within ten miles of such railroads
as may have been subsidized by a gift of one-half the
land within the same limits. Second, by homestead
premption, by which any head of a family, present or
<pb n='295'/><anchor id='Pg295'/>
prospective, can secure 160 acres of land by payment of
certain registration fees, amounting in all to less than
$20 upon the average, and making his residence upon
the land for a period of five years. The issue of a
patent at the end of the five years establishes ownership.
The soldier's homestead, offered to those who had
served as volunteers in the army of the nation, varied
from this only in a reduced term of residence. Third,
homesteaders, as well as others, could secure additional
lands under a provision for tree culture on the treeless
prairies, the requirement being the planting of a few
acres of trees and the maintenance of culture on those
acres for a period of eight years. Even the establishment
of trees in permanent growth was not a requisite.
Fourth, by certain outlay for irrigation purposes in
arid lands a tract of 640 acres could be secured. In
addition to these, certain land grants to the several
states led to the issue of scrip, entitling the possessor to
locate on government lands upon payment of only fees
of registration. Certain states, within whose borders
public lands did not exist, being unable to hold lands
in other states or territories, sold scrip at less than half
the price asked by the government for lands.
</p>

<p>
All these methods operated not only as a stimulant
to the settlement of new territory, but as a check upon
rising values of land in the older communities. Nevertheless,
this rapid development has given the best
of opportunities for watching the tendencies of land
values.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Propriety of land rent.</hi>&mdash;The right of property in
land, like every other property right, rests upon its
<pb n='296'/><anchor id='Pg296'/>
advantage in the welfare of communities. Among
savage tribes individual control of plots of ground
would interfere with welfare, as hindering the only use
to which the land is put in hunting. Among people
living by herding no nice dividing lines are needed,
though strife between herdsmen, since the days of
Abraham and Lot, results from the mingling of herds
upon the same feeding grounds. With the actual
tillage of soil, control of the space tilled becomes absolutely
necessary, and more necessary with every improvement
in agriculture which takes the nature of
permanent improvement upon the soil. No agriculture
beyond the merest skinning of the surface has ever
existed without permanent occupation. Even where the
land is distinctly owned, but used under temporary
leases, few permanent improvements in agriculture are
possible.
</p>

<p>
The necessary permanence of control over the products
of toil makes an essentially permanent control of
land necessary to the common welfare. For this reason
the progress of civilization everywhere demands more
distinct boundaries of landed property, and this in the
interest of the whole community, which shares in the
progress. The more intensive and far-seeing the
methods of farming become, the greater the necessity
for fixed boundaries. This necessity is recognized in
all provisions for exact surveys, complete records of
transfers in ownership; and finally for government
guaranty of title. Such ownership underlies all prudential
consumption of wealth for future returns. The
loss to communities from want of it is seen in the waste
<pb n='297'/><anchor id='Pg297'/>
of game in unappropriated countries and the destruction
of the seals in the seal fisheries. Yet this ownership
is still subject under all circumstances to the law
of welfare for the entire community. The community's
right of eminent domain has always been recognized in
the need of public highways and other public improvements,
and is likely to be still further recognized with
any new necessity, like the control of injurious insects
or quarantine against disease. Yet none of these restrictions
diminish the necessity of ownership, in the
sense of individual control for all purposes of agriculture,
manufactures, commerce and social relations.
This individual control is intimately connected with our
ideas of rent, and would be still, though all the lands
were managed under one proprietorship, and that a
public one. Rent would accrue and be paid, though the
whole people held title to the land.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The sources of land values.</hi>&mdash;The value of land, like
every other value, is the result of comparisons. Whatever
advantage is given to a producer by his possession
of land is likely to form his estimate of its
value. In the comparison of two farms of equal dimensions
every difference in fertility, location as to drainage,
exposure, or convenience to market or social advantages,
adaptability to improved methods in agriculture
and convenience of arrangement, will enter into
the estimate of worth. If one of the farms can be had
for the asking, the other will be worth just what its
advantages will add to the power of the owner in the
production of wealth, provided both are considered alike
as simply machines for producing food. Usually, however,
<pb n='298'/><anchor id='Pg298'/>
economy in the consumption of wealth is considered
also. In a new country lands most easily accessible
and readily tillable are chosen first. With added
demand for food, less accessible or less easily tillable
lands are occupied. At once the more accessible have a
value equal to the greater ease with which the same product
can be offered in market. If the difference were only
a mile of hauling all produce and all commodities for
which produce is exchanged, that cost of transportation
would make the value of the nearest land. If the difference
is simply in yield for a given amount of labor, the
land which yields thirty bushels of wheat to the acre,
when land which yields twenty bushels can be had for
the taking, will be worth ten bushels of wheat a year,
and its value will be estimated in dollars at a sum which
securely at interest will bring a similar return. If, by
and by, the demand for food or improvement in transportation
or an easier method makes it worth while to
cultivate land yielding only ten bushels of wheat to the
acre, the annual value of land yielding twenty bushels
will be ten bushels, and that of the land yielding thirty
bushels will have become twenty bushels.
</p>

<p>
Thus the rent, and correspondingly the value of
farms, increases with the increasing demand for farm
products, whether that demand results from the increased
number of eaters at hand, from the increased
ability of these eaters to supply their wants, or from
ready transportation to eaters elsewhere. Many influences
in various directions affect the tendency to an increase
of land values with the increase of population.
Some have been led to the assumption that only the multiplication
<pb n='299'/><anchor id='Pg299'/>
of food-eaters, increasing the need for land,
makes rent possible. Connecting it with the theory of
Malthus that population tends to increase in geometrical
ratio, while food can increase only in arithmetical ratio,
they have denounced rent as a price paid to monopolists
under stress of danger from starvation. These forget
that rent is payable as truly out of increasing abilities
of individuals to meet increasing wants as under the
spur of more distressing wants. Indeed, starvation, or
the approach to it, never pays rent, however strong an
incentive it may be to promise rent.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Rent in price of products.</hi>&mdash;Does the value of the
land upon which my wheat is raised enter into the price
of my wheat? If all land values were destroyed, would
the wheat of the world be cheaper, because its cost would
be diminished? The price at any time is just enough to
bring the supply to market and keep it there. A portion
of the supply has cost even more than it brings to its
owner. If any brings more than cost, the difference goes
either to the energetic raiser using improved methods,
or to the fortunate receiver of timely showers, or to the
possessor of the fruitful field. Neither the profit of the
raiser, through his method and the shower, nor the rent
of the fertile field has made a bushel of wheat less or
more valuable in market. The value of the wheat in the
market makes both the profit and the rent. If the value
of wheat falls, the value of best wheat lands sometimes
follows; but land values do not directly affect prices of
products, though they may be directly dependent upon
those prices.
</p>

<p>
Indirectly, however, the value of land may affect
<pb n='300'/><anchor id='Pg300'/>
prices of products. Land, in certain speculative movements
of society, gains a value for future use. If the
fertile fields are held for speculative purposes, less fertile
fields must furnish a limited supply at increased price.
If the fields are wanted for homes, the supply must come
from a distance at greater cost, or be raised on fewer
acres by more costly tillage, and will not come till the
price is increased. Thus high rents, or land values, if
maintained by outward forces may diminish the total
product, and so affect prices. But no conspiracy of land
holders can affect the price of their products so long as
their lands are employed in supplying the market.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Variation in land values.</hi>&mdash;Rents vary in different
countries under various customs of those countries, and
so land values can be compared only by knowing the
customs and laws which influence the transfer of landed
property, either by deed or by lease. Differences in
value are often due to considerations entirely distinct
from production. Farms are homes as well as machines;
and the privileges of home life, with all the relations of
family, friendship and patriotic associations, may rouse
competition that greatly influences the market value of
farms. In any community, whatever custom or law
hinders competition in farming affects the relative value
of farms in productive industry. Peculiarities in the
method of holding lands have much to do with their
value. The hopes and expectations of the people have
large influence. Whatever stimulates enterprise and
increases speculative energy enlarges the estimate of
land value. Whatever depreciates abilities or discourages
enterprise diminishes land value. Whatever encourages
<pb n='301'/><anchor id='Pg301'/>
permanent improvements and far-sighted plans in farming
increases land prices. Whatever discourages the
spirit of improvement reduces such prices.
</p>

<p>
In some of these ways it is possible to account for
great differences of value in regions apparently equal in
natural advantages. Thus nobody wants lands in
Turkey, however fertile, in comparison with lands in
a free country like ours. Countries under a poor system
of agriculture with inefficient labor cannot maintain high
value of land. Ignorance and thriftlessness in a community
of laborers operates in the same way. Thus the
habits of the people, as well as their laws, enter into the
question of rent. In countries where large estates are
parceled out to renters, generation after generation, the
customary terms of leases as to time, method of payment,
adjustment of improvements, restrictions as to methods
of tillage, and requirement of capital, enter largely into
the question of rents. In some the fear of eviction under
arrearages cuts a prominent figure; in others the confiscation
of improvements destroys all enterprise. Upon
the continent of Europe, in some places, the payment of
rent in produce,&mdash;what we call working of land upon
shares,&mdash;greatly limits individual enterprise, though it
gives to the land owner a direct control in the methods
employed on the land. Restrictions of law or of custom
upon transfer of ownership always have the effect of
diminishing the general productiveness by hindering the
natural competition of productive enterprise. The result
of all laws of entail, by which enormous estates are held
from generation to generation under control of the same
family, is universally deprecated because of its interference
<pb n='302'/><anchor id='Pg302'/>
with the natural law of supply and demand as to
farms and homes. All such restrictions favor the spirit
of monopoly and cultivate arbitrary power, which in
every way hinders progress.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Recent decrease of land values.</hi>&mdash;In the United States
during recent years there has been a decided shrinkage
of land values in most of the country. Several evident
causes appear worthy of mention. The most evident is
a rapid increase of farms on the western plains, recently
bringing their products into the competition. These
prairie regions give the largest range for farming in the
world. In the same connection is the introduction, upon
these immense fields of cheap land, of extensive machinery
by which the productive power of labor is multiplied.
The labor of one man for 300 days is said to have
produced in California 5,000 bushels of wheat, so that
one man's labor on many acres gives to each of 1,000
people a barrel of flour a year. Next to this is the opening
of new agricultural enterprises in South America,
Australia, India and South Africa, with still greater
prospects in Siberia&mdash;all the result of great improvements
in transportation, opening to these regions the
world's great markets. This has pushed the supply of
staple products toward the condition of over-production.
The same cause has diminished the demand for our
staples by greatly stimulating the consumption of foreign
fruits and nuts. Most recently has come the depression
from loss of confidence in enterprise, through excessive
speculation and waste of capital, undermining the market
for land as well as for all the machinery of production.
In these conditions the whole world has shared.
</p>

<pb n='303'/><anchor id='Pg303'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Population drifting to cities.</hi>&mdash;The drift of farm population
toward the cities is a symptom of the changed
conditions, not a cause. If, as decided by an expert investigator,
three men on a farm do the work that fourteen
did forty years ago, the farms can well spare to the
cities an increasing number of its boys and girls. The
drift is real and permanent, diminishing rural population
in 100 years from 96 per cent of the whole to 70
per cent, though exaggerated in figures through arbitrary
division between towns and cities. This movement
has been noticed the world over since 1848, when
machinery began to affect agricultural production.
</p>

<p>
That this drift is wholesome is evident, if we look at
the diversity of employment resulting and the improved
welfare of all. A simple comparison of figures from the
United States census will show the readjustment of employment.
No one can doubt the advantage gained in
the entire nation.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Abandoned farms.</hi>&mdash;The most disturbing feature of
this readjustment is the desertion of some farms in the
rougher parts of New England and the drier parts of
the West. These lands will find a profitable use in
the woodlots through the East, and in grazing ranges
through the West, with slight permanent loss. They are
not signs of poverty, but of a developing thrift, just as
the abandoned country woolen mills tell the story of immense
growth in the factory methods. While individuals
seeking profit in sale or rent of their farms may
suffer in any such shrinkage of local values, it must not
be forgotten that the total of rural welfare is not necessarily
diminished. Land values, aside from improvements,
<pb n='304'/><anchor id='Pg304'/>
are everywhere evidence of limitations to welfare
in some special direction. If human enterprise and invention
and thrift lessen such limitations, the world is
better off.
</p>

<p>
The great mass of farmers, who think more of their
homes than of property, will suffer little from lower
prices of land unless such low prices result from a general
lack of thrift and of adaptation to new circumstances.
While the changes in price which affect reduction
of rent values do require readjustment of plans and
methods, the farmer who keeps in touch with the world's
work will not suffer, but gain, in the general advancement.
In many instances, the low condition of farm
property is due to unthrifty neglect of farmers in whole
neighborhoods. Bad roads, short schools, weak fences
and poor stock are as often a cause as an effect of low
prices of land. Whole regions in our country suffer in
this way from unthrift, whatever the price of farm products
or of lands.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Farms in the United States.</hi>&mdash;These are under conditions
best suited to attend the general thrift of the
world in every way. Ownership is not complicated in
any way with magisterial duties or prestige or entailment,
as in England. It is not so distinctly hereditary
as to embarrass agriculture by extreme subdivision of
farms, as in France and other portions of Europe. It is
in no danger of combination into great estates under absentee
landlords, as in Ireland. Its laws of transfer and
guaranty are growing more and more simple and direct,
while protection to homestead rights is strong. Farmers
themselves have such responsibility in state and nation
<pb n='305'/><anchor id='Pg305'/>
as to make their genuine interests felt everywhere,
and no system of caste can make them a peasantry, as in
most of the Old World. Indeed, the farmer in every
region makes his farm; and the enterprising, educated
farmer of the next generation in our country will find in
himself the forces at work to give value to his land.
The speculative movement in land holding will be outgrown
when genuine farm homes are more prized for
their welfare than for their wealth; but this very welfare
will maintain a stable value in lands.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='307'/><anchor id='Pg307'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Part III. Consumption of Wealth.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XXIII. Wealth Used By Individuals.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Wealth to be consumed for welfare.</hi>&mdash;The only economic
motive for the accumulation of wealth is its use
in promotion of welfare. While the old maxim says,
<q>A penny saved is worth two gained,</q> every one recognizes
the penny as absolutely worthless except in view of
some utility to be gained in spending it. So with every
form of wealth. All economic value disappears when
the thought of use is wanting. Such use, whether practically
instantaneous, like the destruction of the gunpowder
projecting the bullet, or extended through
hundreds of years, as in the wearing out of a castle, or
a bridge, is properly called consumption of wealth.
</p>

<p>
A majority of the great problems concerning social
welfare are connected with the use of wealth, and therefore
fall under the discussion of consumption. Indeed,
so long as there is little accumulated wealth, as in the
savage state, social problems have little significance.
The statement of the Apostle Paul, <q>The love of money
<pb n='308'/><anchor id='Pg308'/>
is the root of all evil,</q> while not confined in application
to wealth already accumulated, has its most important
bearing in the fact that wealth accumulated is itself a
power to be used or abused by whoever controls it. The
saying of Emerson, <q>The best political economy is care
and culture of men,</q> applies most strictly to the uses of
wealth and the methods of its consumption. The great
question of today in every civilized land is, How can the
accumulations of power in the shape of wealth made by
this generation be used to establish a continuous welfare,
not only for this generation, but for its successors?
The wants of society today include not only a reasonable
provision for life and health and wisdom and virtue during
the life of those who are now active, but an equal
provision for the same wants increased with each succeeding
generation. In all thought of consuming wealth,
we must remember that power in this form is rightly
used only when power in some other form results. Thus
wealth is consumed, according to natural laws, either for
reproducing itself in more advantageous form or for
sustaining human power in form of health or wisdom
or virtue.
</p>

<p>
We have social welfare as the result of wealth consumed,
or used up. Society is interested in all the wealth
accumulated, and the methods of its accumulation and
its fair distribution are a part of social machinery; yet
these have their chief significance in the final consumption.
It is not what we have, but what we do with it,
that makes society interested in our possessions. It is
not what society has, but how it uses it, that settles the
chief questions of welfare or illfare. Not only gunpowder,
<pb n='309'/><anchor id='Pg309'/>
but every conceivable power in material wealth,
has blessing or bane in the use to which it is put. So
the welfare of a community cannot be judged by the
amount and kind of wealth produced or by the methods
in production or by the distribution of ownership.
These may be significant in showing the trend of social
customs as to individual control, but the last inquiry
will still have to be, What welfare comes to the entire
community when all this wealth is used? Moreover, no
analysis of qualities in any substance called wealth can
measure the welfare involved in its use. Its relation to
the individual using it and his relation to the whole
community, with a careful analysis of wants met and
character developed, must be considered. The final
question is, How many and what kind of wants are
satisfied?
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Use of wealth individual.</hi>&mdash;It is necessary to realize
that the social organization is maintained solely for the
sake of individuals. All study of welfare and illfare is
a study of individual human beings. The mutual relations
of these human beings in society are means to
individual life, growth and enjoyment. Even the total
power of a generation in society is dependent upon how
the individual wants of individual members of that society
are met. Some of the greatest mistakes in estimating
social welfare arise from overlooking the essential
individuality of wants, upon which all wealth depends
for its use.
</p>

<p>
This individuality makes the proper consumption of
wealth largely a question of right and wrong. The
possessor of any form of wealth is obliged to recognize
<pb n='310'/><anchor id='Pg310'/>
his place in society as a promoter of welfare, and society
compels, as far as it is able, a recognition of individual
needs. Yet the very nature of consumption, as concerned
with individual wants, makes individual judgment supreme
in the use of wealth. It is my ideal of good
health, high culture and sound morals that must be met
for my enjoyment. My welfare, so long as I have
rational powers, is the meeting of my ideal. Society
rightly hesitates to interfere with my ideals by force as
long as my actions do not disturb the welfare of my
neighbors. The necessity of human liberty for actual
welfare limits the control of society to very evident infringements
upon others' welfare in every activity, including
the use of wealth as well as other powers. This
very restriction is in the interest of highest total enjoyment
of welfare in the whole community.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Individual responsibility for use of wealth.</hi>&mdash;In estimating
the proper uses of wealth, it is necessary to
remember that mere animal existence is a very small
part of human welfare. It would not be enough for any
human society that every individual in it be fed, clothed,
warmed and maintained in reasonably long life. The
highest uniformity of mere animal enjoyment would not
make a society worthy to be called human. Even uniformity
of wants far higher, with uniform supply for
those wants, would give but little organization and but
little total welfare if that uniformity was brought by
curtailment of natural powers or by constraint that
hinders growth. The most natural fact among human
beings, as in all the rest of nature, is variety; and every
conception of proper consumption of wealth must involve
<pb n='311'/><anchor id='Pg311'/>
this thought of variety of individuals in wants and
powers left free to grow. It is a purely false assumption
that the ideal community toward which all ought to
strive is a community of equals in either ability or capacity.
That is the ideal community which gives to
every member of it opportunity to make most of himself;
that is, to make himself most useful, and able to enjoy
the truest use of his powers.
</p>

<p>
Hence we find the tendency in every community, with
reference to wealth as to other individual forces, to
recognize early and complete personal responsibility.
This personal responsibility makes the question of consumption
of wealth a question of morals as well as of
wisdom. The whole discussion here turns upon the
wisdom or unwisdom of certain personal uses or social
uses of what the world has accumulated. We can ask
what use of wealth is prudent, what imprudent; then
what social organization best develops the wisdom which
secures a prudent use of wealth; and finally, how far
and in what ways society can act as a unit in the place
of individuals. The machinery of government then becomes
a part of every person's welfare, and his relation
to its maintenance by contribution of his wealth is a
part of prudent consumption. The economic question in
consumption, then, involves not so much what one can
get from society as what he can give to society, since his
welfare comes largely through organization in the use
of accumulated wealth.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='312'/><anchor id='Pg312'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XXIV. Prudent Consumption.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Prudent uses of wealth.</hi>&mdash;It has already been suggested
that a proper use of wealth looks always beyond
the present. We accumulate, not only to spend, but to
spend in such a way as will give larger abilities in the
future. The name prudential consumption has been
given to all that use of wealth which has for its end the
maintenance of individual powers at highest efficiency
for the longest life and provision for a more efficient posterity
with more efficient instruments of production.
</p>

<p>
It is prudential use of wealth to gather into the
farm, not only such machinery in the shape of buildings,
fences and roadways as will make the future labor
more effective, but all possible fertility that will make
the future owners of the farm a larger welfare in possession.
All wealth put into the form of productive
capital is prudentially consumed. All so-called permanent
improvements which look to the better satisfaction
of future wants fulfil the condition of prudent foresight.
All public improvements are really such, when
this far-seeing provision for future wants and abilities
of society is made. Such methods are the genuine economic
saving in which the community should be encouraged.
A saving which merely stores against a future
personal want contributes less to general welfare, and
<pb n='313'/><anchor id='Pg313'/>
does not stimulate the natural growth of wants in the
individual, which is the chief source of increasing
power. The one who saves that he may have better
tools with which to do more for his future satisfaction,
not only adds to his physical abilities to meet his daily
wants, but adds the strongest stimulant to energy in his
work. The supply of ordinary wants being provided
for, new wants arise.
</p>

<p>
In the spirit of prudential consumption such wants
are encouraged as give greater and greater abilities.
Thus the ideal of life is constantly raised, and the struggle
is not for existence but for higher enjoyment and
more genuine welfare. The wealth which comes in this
accumulation of capital for larger accomplishment aids
true philanthropy. The whole world gets more of welfare
with every addition made by farmers to their working
capital. In the same way all increase of capital in
machinery, tools, warehouses, ships and other means of
transport contribute to a philanthropy that makes
society richer.
</p>

<p>
Such saving is entirely opposed to the miserly spirit
which hides wealth because of mere love of possession
or fear of future want. It is the true way of both
spending and having, since it expends earnings for that
which continues to aid in bringing larger returns to
meet increasing want. That social system is most prudent
for the world which accumulates productive capital
without reducing any part of society to poverty. Prudence,
however, requires that this capital saving be adjusted
to the abilities of the community in which it is to
be used. The building of an enormous factory, where
<pb n='314'/><anchor id='Pg314'/>
skill has yet to be developed and where a market is
wanting, would be the height of imprudence. Such
waste is sometimes seen under the false stimulant of a
bounty or a restrictive tariff. Just so, great public
improvements upon rivers, harbors and highways are a
part of economy and prudent investment of wealth only
when a community is able to use them to advantage.
The test of prudence in capital saving is in its nice
adjustment to the abilities of the users.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Prudent adjustment of capital.</hi>&mdash;A still further adjustment
is required by prudence between the capital
put into fixed forms and the circulating capital needed
for best use of the more lasting machinery. A farmer
is said to be stock poor when he overloads his farm or
crowds his farm buildings with growing stock. Having
all his capital in stock, he is unable to handle it to
advantage, and must readjust his capital in live stock
to his capital in the farm and machinery by selling some
of his stock and adding to the value of his farm. On
the other hand, many a farmer is land poor, where the
bulk of his capital is invested in land, while he cannot
command circulating capital in stock and wages sufficient
to make the land useful. He needs, in the spirit of prudence,
to sell some of his land for the sake of current
funds to invest in live stock and in labor. The same
principle applies to all investments of capital. A railroad
may so exhaust the funds of the community in
building it that it cannot be fairly manned for work.
Sometimes a whole nation invests so largely in permanent
forms of capital as to bring distress and poverty
from want of means to use the great machine.
</p>

<pb n='315'/><anchor id='Pg315'/>

<p>
Prudence also requires a further adjustment between
the amount of labor directly producing wealth and that
employed in what may be called the arts of consumption,
contributing directly to personal comfort and enjoyment.
The neatness of a farmer's yard, outbuildings,
fences and machinery is a part of his welfare. It
also indicates a certain thrift, which enhances the value
of the farm. But it is a proper sign of such thrift
when it grows naturally out of the productive energy
employed upon the crops and the stock. The wealth
used in maintaining this neatness is not wasted, but it
will not reproduce itself. It must be supplied from
other sources in direct production. All services in the
household, in contributing to bodily comfort of the
family, make an essential part of human welfare, but
prudence requires such an adjustment of these services
to the total wealth-producing energy that they may be
maintained without reducing the total power. All public
expenditures in the care of streets and parks are an
essential to welfare so long as the sources of wealth
production are kept the more active from such advantages.
The test of prudence in all such adjustment is
the increase of power in wealth-production, along with
increasing welfare.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Provision for future wants.</hi>&mdash;True prudence is largely
foresight, and so is the enterprise of speculative energy
which provides any product for a future market. No
more careful adjustment is necessary than that which
secures such a product of farm or factory as the world
will need when it reaches its actual market. The greatest
wisdom is needed in studying the conditions of a
<pb n='316'/><anchor id='Pg316'/>
community with reference to its future wants, and the
supply actually accumulating for meeting those wants.
</p>

<p>
Farmers need, as truly as any producers, to know the
wants of the world for which they are producing food.
The crops they plant in the spring will actually be consumed
in large measure during the following year. Prudence
suggests that they plant such crops as will be
most in demand. If they judge by the market today,
they are in danger of two errors: first, of overestimating
the future demand, which may be satisfied before the
new crop comes; second, of diverting from ordinary
staple crops too large a portion of the crop-raising force.
Common experience has taught that a high price of hops
or onions or broom corn has almost certainly wrought a
reduction of the price for succeeding crops below the
normal cost. Still larger foresight is needed with reference
to the raising of live stock, which requires more
than a single season's investment of capital. To stock
a farm with hogs, sheep, cattle or horses, requires from
one to five years of accumulated capital. The record of
farm stock shows successive waves of such production
in direct opposition to prudence. (Chart No. <ref target='Chart_IV'>4</ref>,
p. <ref target='Pg083'>83</ref>.)
</p>

<p>
The manufacturing world has similar experiences of
imprudent consumption in the effort to forestall a market.
But the record of failures in this respect is scarcely
as marked, because of more business-like collection of
information for the guidance of judgment. Farmers too
generally follow the lead of their neighbors in adjustment
of crops or stock. Manufacturers more generally
try to do what their rivals are not doing. Success in
producing what is not finally wanted we call overproduction.
<pb n='317'/><anchor id='Pg317'/>
While the whole world is warned against this,
each individual producer fails to study as well as he
might the means of avoiding it.
</p>

<p>
Prudential consumption does not properly provide for
those speculative dealings which end simply in a readjustment
of wealth by gains on the one side through
losses on the other. All these imply an actual waste of
wealth and energy, whether they are exhibited in a
gambling machine or a board of trade. But there are
certain great enterprises, like wonderful inventions,
which involve a prudential consumption of wealth.
The wealth consumed in developing the electric telegraph
system, or in laying the Atlantic cable, everyone
would judge to be well invested. Every thought of
prudence sustains such expenditure. Yet the spirit of
invention, as a mere venture in desire to hit upon something
which may chance to be wanted, shows lack of
prudence, and the world suffers by great waste of energy
in this direction. The only test of prudential consumption
in provision for the future market is in the careful
study of all conditions, favorable and unfavorable.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Consumption for growth.</hi>&mdash;True prudence in public
improvements has just been mentioned, but such prudence
has a larger range in promoting the permanent
growth of human powers and capacities. Every wise
father wishes his children to know more, be more efficient
in the arts of life, and enjoy more of true welfare
than he does. Communities which show no advancement
in these respects are called dead, and decay is sure
to follow. Prudence looks after all educational interests
by expending wealth upon the means of education; not
<pb n='318'/><anchor id='Pg318'/>
only sustaining schools, but making more permanent
provision and increasing facilities for instruction. This
is not only a means of preserving and wisely using the
wealth accumulated, but a means of increased production.
Such prudence suggests large endowments for
public education, including the support of government
machinery for uniformity of education. A similar prudence
sustains the philanthropic spirit which maintains
all the means of philanthropy. The endowment of
asylums for the weak and afflicted and the support of religious
institutions are prudent ways not only of caring
for present welfare, but of increasing the welfare of the
future. The next generation will be stronger and happier
for the prudent foresight of this generation in overcoming
obstacles to health and wisdom and virtue.
To leave wealth thus invested is far better for successors
than to leave it in form for ready consumption upon
temporary wants. Thus all prudent consumption of
wealth has for its basis the genuine welfare of a continuous
society of human beings subject to improvement.
Any forming community looks surely to future welfare
when it invests wealth in good homes, good schools
and good churches.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='319'/><anchor id='Pg319'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XXV. Imprudent Consumption.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Society interested in imprudence.</hi>&mdash;This fact, that the
wealth of each generation is so largely dependent upon
the prudence of the preceding, emphasizes the importance
of public sentiment in favor of prudential consumption.
Public criticism naturally attacks the most
noticeable failures of prudence, and it therefore seems
worth while to consider some of those imprudent forms
of consumption which society may seek to prevent. It
is also proper to consider the ways in which society may
act for prevention of imprudence.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Luxurious consumption.</hi>&mdash;The question of luxury in
the same society with extreme poverty is always prominent.
Luxury is supposed to be extravagant expenditure
in meeting individual wants. Though such wants
may be real and legitimate, lavish expenditure by any
portion of a community seems at first sight a trespass
upon common welfare. Some have considered that person
wanting in good will to his fellows who expends
upon his own comfort more than his neighbors can
afford. Others define luxury to be expenditure for living
above the average expenditure in the whole community.
Still others regard any expenditure a luxury
which is not needed to maintain physical powers.
</p>

<p>
It is easy to see that all these efforts at definition are
<pb n='320'/><anchor id='Pg320'/>
imperfect, because the idea of luxury implies such a
mode of life as does not contribute to the total welfare,
and each one's idea of total welfare enters into his definition
of luxury. It is an evident fact that the so-called
luxuries of one generation become the actual necessities
of the next. This is because the life of the race means
more and includes more with each succeeding generation.
To live in the twentieth century will mean, as it has
always meant in the past, to have such exercise of every
ability as circumstances permit. Luxury is therefore
always relative to the duties one has to perform, as well
as to the society in which one moves. Moreover, luxury
is relative to individual abilities and individual plans.
It would be luxury for a farmer to go without a needed
plow for the sake of buying a lawn mower. It would be
luxury for a student to own two coats, if he must go
without a dictionary to buy the second.
</p>

<p>
It is easy to settle the luxuries of others, but less easy
to so define luxury that the public can agree in the definition.
In general, it is described to be a meeting of
fanciful rather than real wants. Any individual in society
is spending his wealth in luxury if he allows his
imagination to conjure up adornments of person or
household which contribute chiefly to display rather than
to comfort or enlightenment. All such adornments of
person, or home, or the public streets, as cultivate genuine
taste and inspire to more of energy contribute to
the general welfare far more than mere expenditure for
food can do. Yet in times of starvation the food must
come first. The world sometimes sneers at the desire
among very poor people to cultivate flowers and maintain
<pb n='321'/><anchor id='Pg321'/>
a canary or other pets; yet every philanthropist
knows that these desires are among the strongest incentives
to greater thrift and keener exertion.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Legal restrictions upon luxury.</hi>&mdash;With all this difficulty
in definition and the certainty of change from age
to age, there is nevertheless a disposition on the part of
society to restrict actual luxury. Again and again this
has led to enactment of laws prohibiting expenditure in
certain definite forms. The dress of ladies of rank has
been restricted as to style and quantity of material and
ways of making. The variety upon a dinner table has
been limited to a certain number of dishes and certain
kinds of food.
</p>

<p>
All of these have been egregious failures, from the
impossibility of measuring results upon the general
progress of civilization. The indirect effects of ingenuity
in dress and cooking have been on the whole so
beneficial that the world cannot afford to hinder it. The
intricacies of French cooking seem to an ordinary household
extreme luxury, yet that very ingenuity has
cheapened the cost of living, to a large portion of the
world, by rendering palatable the coarser vegetables and
cheaper meats which lie within the reach of the poor.
</p>

<p>
No real student of human nature would now attempt,
unless it be in the emergency of a great famine, to restrict
expenditures by law upon the plea of luxury.
Still, society as a whole has some voice in directing the
judgment of individuals. Public opinion is an effective
check upon desires. The good will of the multitude is
more important to the mass of men than any particular
gratification. It is proper, therefore, to discuss at any
<pb n='322'/><anchor id='Pg322'/>
time and at all times the limits of luxury, both for ourselves
and for our neighbors. The sole cure for imprudent
expenditure in luxuries is individual culture of
mind and heart and conscience, so that each may do his
best to secure, not only the good will of his neighbors,
but their welfare.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Wasteful consumption.</hi>&mdash;Wasteful expenditure through
ignorance or recklessness is more common and more
weakening than luxury. Its limits cannot be described,
since it covers expenditures of every kind, from the
simplest provision for food and clothing to the most
elaborate structures and wildest schemes of development.
Though noticeable wastes are seen in the households
of the rich, they are relatively larger among
the poor.
</p>

<p>
Yet any attempt to regulate such waste by law is
futile, chiefly from the fact that it ignores the personal
responsibility and wants which make individual character.
It is properly applied to the imbecile and the insane,
as well as to children and youth, through the
appointment of a prudent guardian. Society can protect
itself only by fostering more complete systems of
education in the arts of life. The tendency of our times
toward a more technical education, especially in reference
to the home and the common industries of life, marks
the growth of public opinion toward a clearer ideal of
prudence against waste. The study of economic principles
in every department of life, and especially the
clear understanding of everyday facts as to the things
men handle and use, cannot but give wisdom for preventing
waste.
</p>

<pb n='323'/><anchor id='Pg323'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Vicious consumption.</hi>&mdash;It is customary to distinguish
from all other forms of imprudent consumption of
wealth such vicious indulgence of appetites as not only
consumes accumulated wealth but diminishes power in
production. Such vicious indulgence is the result of
cultivating unnatural and destructive appetites. Familiar
illustrations are those connected with the drink habit,
the opium habit, or any other vice whose chief effect is
seen upon the individual life of the one indulging himself.
These involve the very highest wastefulness, because
they destroy not only wealth, but ability. Nobody
can begin to compute in terms of money the actual
waste of our country through indulgence in strong
drink. The value of liquors consumed is no measure of
the entire wastefulness. Yet this is more than enough
to furnish all with bread.
</p>

<p>
The wrongfulness of such indulgence, from its harm
to society through reducing the power of the race, is
seldom disputed. Yet the right of society to restrict the
individual indulgence is quite generally disputed. The
larger need of freedom in the exercise of judgment
among mature members of a community outweighs the
need of preventing even vice. Society does well to bring
the restraints of law upon the immature, whose judgment
is not yet formed, thus supplementing by law the
directive energy of parental control. It may yet go
further, and prohibit such indulgence to all who have
lost the power of self-control. But in general it has
been found impossible to enforce restriction upon vicious
indulgence except where such acts occasion direct suffering
upon others, or help to maintain an immoral business.
<pb n='324'/><anchor id='Pg324'/>
The right of restraint and constraint, even to
prohibition, of that which fosters vice and extends its
range must be admitted by all thoughtful persons. Still,
the right to prohibit and the power to prohibit are not
identical. The only sure preventive is early education
of public conscience through the training of youth to a
clear understanding of the vicious practices and their
relation to the poverty and weakness and crime of
humanity.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Destructive consumption.</hi>&mdash;A more obvious trespass
upon prudential consumption is criminal destructiveness
of every kind. Until society outgrows a condition in
which fraud, theft, robbery and murder must be
warded off by locks and bars, by immense bodies of
policemen and armed militia, its wealth cannot be wholly
invested for welfare. The possibility of such crimes as
arson or train obstruction and destruction shows the
condition of the best of modern communities to be far
from ideal. Nobody pretends to measure the actual
waste in society resulting from such criminal purposes.
It extends to almost every detail of production and
trade, and occupies a large portion of the inventive and
executive energy of the people. Organized society attempts
to restrain such waste by its police force, or by
restraining laws and in actions enforced by severe
penalties. Every honest man is financially interested in
the conviction of every knave. Sympathy with fraud,
even in trifles, is contributing toward such destructive
waste.
</p>

<p>
In this connection the enormous expenditure in maintenance
of standing armies and navies for the protection
<pb n='325'/><anchor id='Pg325'/>
of national boundaries is of special importance. Reduction
of this waste of wealth and power should be desired
by every class of society. Though war has been
the means by which human liberty has grown, it has also
been the means of crushing it. It would seem that
every incentive is offered each citizen to make an appeal
to arms and the maintenance of armies a most remote
necessity. Yet it seems that the mass of men of every
rank are tenacious of national honor. While most communities
have abandoned the duel as both wasteful
and immoral in personal difficulties, the spirit of the
duel is still rife in the differences between nations. A
clearer perception of mutual interests in national welfare
will bring nations, like individuals, to accept some
method of enforcing neutral judgment for settling disputes,
in place of war. The farmers of a country, being
nearly 50 per cent of its people, and bearing a large
proportion of the expense of armies and wars, have a
tremendous interest in maintaining peace. This can be
done not so much by reducing the provision for armies
as by cultivating the spirit of fair settlement, against
the false patriotism which claims everything for one's
own nation.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>False notions of waste.</hi>&mdash;Wasteful expenditure and
luxury and possibly even vicious indulgence are often
excused with the plea that expenditures of this kind
make employment for labor, and so aid the poor. While
it is true that multitudes are employed in catering to the
vices of others, all must grant that the same wealth
might be much better employed in other occupations.
More than that, the larger wealth resulting from accumulation
<pb n='326'/><anchor id='Pg326'/>
in place of waste would provide capital needed for
fuller employment of all who can work. All imprudent
expenditure reduces the power of society to accumulate
wealth for giving occupation to all who will work.
Moreover, such wastefulness creates a tendency toward
thriftless character among the people. The welfare of
the whole community depends upon the thrift of the
whole community. The thriftlessness of rich men's
sons is more damaging than the thriftlessness of tramps,
because it is more tempting to others. Any man who
lives simply to spend, however busy he keeps himself, is
one of the wasteful ones in the community, unless he
has some higher object than gratifying his desires. The
energetic idler may be doing his worst for the community
without being ranked as a spendthrift, because
he makes such idleness respectable. It should be the
desire of all good citizens to increase the ability of every
other citizen, not only to live, but to live well. This
thriftlessness can be overcome only by a strong public
sentiment that corrects the early tendencies of youth to
waste of means and energy.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Waste in rivalry.</hi>&mdash;There is another kind of wastefulness
resulting from excessive competition for a particular
business or a particular trade. Immense amounts
are expended upon rival advertisements, all of which
enter into the general cost to consumers. A multitude of
retail dealers maintain stocks of goods entirely out of
proportion to the needs of the community, because they
are rivals in trade. Very likely the business rents are
higher than they need be because of such rivalry. Not
only is there a strong competition for a place, but also
<pb n='327'/><anchor id='Pg327'/>
for showy equipment and elegance of display. All this
could be saved by better organization. A still more evident
waste is from the multiplication of agents and
middle men of all kinds, employed simply in catching
trade. Some of them act simply as interlopers, hoping
to gain a small commission without the use of capital or
painstaking in their business. These are the useless
middle men maintained at the expense of the community.
Full market reports and general information of buyers
and sellers greatly reduce such waste.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='328'/><anchor id='Pg328'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XXVI. Social Organization For Consumption.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Individualism.</hi>&mdash;While the social organization is necessarily
thought of as a group of individuals, whose
individual wants and plans and growth and character
must be the chief incentive for action, it is necessary to
avoid the extreme of individualism. In escaping from
the false analogy implied in considering society an organism,
there is a tendency to make the individual not
only of final importance but independent of association.
Excess of competition is represented in the maxim,
<q>Every man for himself.</q> In the effort to carry out this
maxim and in opposition to restraints of society, whether
by law or by custom, many are led to advocate an
abolition of organization, leaving all welfare to be secured
by appeal to the individual judgment and conscience
of men. It is true that back of all law is the
law of righteousness in individual souls.
</p>

<p>
Under the name of <q>autonomy</q> theorists propose to
appeal to this conscience of individuals, making every
soul a law to itself. Such theorists assume that every
human being will be wise and virtuous, or take the
consequences of his failure. They forget that all organizations
for constraint are a part of the natural
consequences of failure in self-control.
</p>

<pb n='329'/><anchor id='Pg329'/>

<p>
Under the name of <q>anarchy</q> groups of people all
over the world have united to destroy what they consider
arbitrary rules in government. Anarchists differ from
autonomists in putting foremost the destruction of existing
governments. Their ideals of right and wrong and
their methods of individual action for individual welfare
are left for the future to develop, after the rule of the
present has become no-rule. Their present organization,
as far as it is public, appears to be, in almost direct
contradiction of their principles, an absolute despotism.
The same idea has gained followers in some countries,
particularly in Russia, under the name of <q>nihilism.</q>
</p>

<p>
While in some instances such movements may be but
a natural reaction against tyranny, the view of human
wants and human welfare which all these advocates present
is far from being correct. The grand economic fact
that groups are superior to individuals in actual efficiency
is beyond dispute; and it is equally true, though not so
often stated, that groups gain greatest satisfaction for a
given consumption of wealth. It is only when great
numbers share in satisfaction that the highest range of
wants can be gratified. Moreover, even individual wants
are largely social. Each finds his highest pleasure in
the society which nature has provided. The chief
reasons for accumulating wealth are in what men can do
for each other. Any individualism which overlooks
these principles is opposed to welfare, and so self-contradictory.
</p>

<p>
The famous French phrases, <q>laissez faire</q> and
<q>laissez passer,</q> which represent the individualistic side
of economic theory, are often extended beyond the intent
<pb n='330'/><anchor id='Pg330'/>
of the phrase makers. They mean essentially, let
do, let go, and have their proper application in an appeal
to conservative society to so modify laws and customs
that individual enterprise, ingenuity and thrift
shall be stimulated to its best by freedom. Freedom
from restrictions in right-doing, under the evident motive
furnished by general welfare, is an ideal for society.
In economic directions it has great importance. No
thinker can fail to see the trend of civilization toward
such freedom. So far in the history of the world the
enlargement of individual responsibility, by freedom
from constraint among the mature members of society,
has been the chief mark of progress. Yet the constraint
of welfare, and of the general judgment as to what is
welfare, as well as the necessity for agreement as to
ways and means of reaching it, are better recognized
today than ever before. The extreme of individualism
destroys the natural constraint of a common judgment.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Socialism.</hi>&mdash;The opposite extreme is the assumption
that common wants are of supreme importance and common
judgment absolutely efficient. Under the name of
<q>communism</q> it stands in direct contrast with anarchy.
Anarchists and communists may unite upon a platform
of a single plank, opposition to existing institutions;
but in all ideals and purposes and plans for future welfare
they are absolutely opposed to each other. The
natural community of interests so evident in society
gives a fair basis for the general principles of communism.
No doubt the welfare of all is the interest of
each, and the world is growing to recognize it. Among
a group of beings perfectly wise and virtuous there
<pb n='331'/><anchor id='Pg331'/>
could be no clashing of either interests or judgment.
The ideal of Louis Blanc, <q>From every man according
to his powers, to every man according to his wants,</q>
would represent the natural activity of such a group.
But in application to humanity, as it is and is bound to
be by its weakness and waywardness, it seems abstractly
ideal. In fact it is only roughly applicable in ends to be
served, and suggests almost nothing as to ways and
means. Like the golden rule, it applies to the disposition
and purpose of the actor, but leaves the acts to be
decided by individual judgment.
</p>

<p>
The numerous phases of opinion in application of
this principle cannot be presented even by name in this
short chapter. They are worthy of study as indicating
a growth of opinion and sentiment in recognition of the
mutual dependence of all human beings. They are also
worthy of study as indicating how arbitrary a zealot may
become in enforcing his opinions upon others. All of
them are grouped somewhat loosely under the name of
<q>socialism,</q> but there are many gradations in the
supremacy of the social ideal over the individual welfare.
There are also many shades of opinion as to how
the final result of social supremacy shall be reached.
Many are expecting a revolution by force of arms to
establish the ideals of the leaders. More are opportunists,
snatching every opportunity in legislation, in
decision of courts, and in executive power, to apply
their methods.
</p>

<p>
Under the name of <q>collectivism</q> appeals are made
to the multitude to combine their energies under leadership:
first, to overcome present restraints; and then to
<pb n='332'/><anchor id='Pg332'/>
secure combined action in all modes of production and
consumption. <q>Nationalism</q> is more familiar to our
thought in the United States, as embracing the aim of a
somewhat noisy party to bring about the compulsory
organization of all industries under the control of the
nation, even to placing all property and all methods of
consumption under an official despotism.
</p>

<p>
Few recognize the actual logic of their views as compelling
complete subjection of every individual to others'
judgment, and fewer still have any idea of the official
machinery needed for such control. The great majority
are satisfied in seeing evils which might be cured by
greater social accord, expecting at once to vote into existence
the necessary machinery. Most of these are misled
into considering wealth and its uses to be the chief
elements of welfare. They forget that wealth is only a
means of accomplishing one's purposes toward his fellows
and himself. The greed of power and position and
praise are far stronger as evil motives than greed of
wealth. If wealth were distributed by omniscient wisdom
and power according to the maxim of Louis Blanc, the
higher welfare would still be as far away as ever, unless
the same omniscience should control all actions. Such
control by outward force would banish the very idea of
virtue, the highest of all welfare.
</p>

<p>
It is easy to see that every form of socialism, in practical
methods, involves a leveling process inconsistent
with human nature and its surroundings. Equality of
environments is possible only by reducing all to the
lowest condition. Equality of aspirations reduces all
toward the most brutal of the race. Even equality of
<pb n='333'/><anchor id='Pg333'/>
efficiency reduces all to the power of the least efficient.
So the whole range of method, assuming equality of
wealth as important to welfare, lowers the welfare of the
whole by destroying the best abilities and the best
capacities for enjoyment in order to prevent inequality.
</p>

<p>
And yet it has not been proved that equality in any
of these particulars is desirable. It is equally beyond
proof that actual equality is possible. The most absolute
communism implies the greatest inequality in official
power. Even the pleasing phrase, <q>Equality of opportunity,</q>
will not bear analysis as applied to human
nature and human welfare, under the very highest ideals
of social unity. Indeed, the lesson of facts in all activity
is that inter-dependence of <emph>unlike</emph> and <emph>unequal</emph>
forces makes the true unity of organization, and the
surest welfare of multitudes. That each individual
should have the best opportunity possible for his own
development is best for each and for all in a community;
but that such opportunities shall be equal in any other
sense no wisdom can contrive. Most socialistic theories
presuppose almost immediate change of human nature
under the new form of administration. But for this
supposition there is little ground in the history of the
race or of all nature. Growth there will be, and evolution
of ideals; but the administration grows out of these,
instead of being their cause.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Socialistic tendencies.</hi>&mdash;Socialistic theories gain adherence
under the provocation of certain tendencies in
society. First, they appear whenever by oppression or
fraud of any kind a community is made up of one class
possessing wealth directly opposed to another class without
<pb n='334'/><anchor id='Pg334'/>
wealth, with no extended middle class, and therefore
with no ready means of transition from one class to
another. As long as the doors are open for real progress
in power of accomplishment, all the way from poverty to
wealth, society has a unity in its variety that is better
than any communism promises. At present in our own
country, with the great multitude of farmers' families
furnishing not only the necessities of life, but the larger
part of human energy that goes into every calling and
every rank, socialism does not appeal to any large number.
An earnest, thriving farmer's family will never
believe advantage to come either to themselves or to the
race by making them all practically mere wage-earners.
</p>

<p>
Second, a common cause of socialistic views is separation,
under extreme division of labor and opposing
organizations sustained by it, of the workers in very
distinct fields of labor. The jealousies arising between
these classes, or guilds, or between employers and employed,
foster the revolutionary spirit which jumps at
any promise of relief from unsatisfactory conditions.
</p>

<p>
In the third place, a political revolution, if it has destroyed
landmarks of the past and any natural sentiments
growing out of social relations, leaves a mass
of people at sea with reference to the nature of rights.
Under such circumstances socialism offers an apparent
solution of difficulties unprovided for. Though any
practical effort to apply these theories under such circumstances
usually results in despotic assumption of
authority by a few, the people are moved by the pleasant-sounding
phrases. If, in the settling of social affairs
after a revolution, an earnest effort is made to agree upon
<pb n='335'/><anchor id='Pg335'/>
set phrases embodying principles of constitutional
liberty, the chances are in favor of some sweeping statements,
too general to control action, but over-emphasizing
individual rights in comparison with individual
duties. Action under these declarations usually conforms
to the necessities of the case, accepting the immediate
welfare of the society as a guide to more
complete welfare.
</p>

<p>
All these conditions are abnormal, wholly unfavorable
to a fair consideration of what will promote welfare.
Even if socialistic methods might work fairly well when
all were favorably disposed, there is great question
whether they would work as well as present social
methods, under equal good will. It must not be forgotten
that every scheme of nationalization, for its own
sake, implies the government of every individual by
everybody else, thus hampering under petty regulations
and by force of multitudes the growth of every individual.
No scheme for national direction provides as
natural tests for merit, ability, enterprise or necessity
as present methods are known to do wherever fraud and
tyranny are abolished.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Coperative consumption.</hi>&mdash;In the natural order of social
development there is room for much more general
association in the consumption of wealth than we sometimes
think. The world has made great progress in this
direction during the last fifty years, through voluntary
organizations for prudent expenditure. The only limit
to such community of organization for special purposes
is in the nature of the work and the relation of the
workers. Coperative stores, banks, building and loan
<pb n='336'/><anchor id='Pg336'/>
associations, laundries and even kitchens are within the
range of actual experiments. We have already seen how
such coperative interests may operate in simple investment
of capital for production. The chief obstacles in
them all are the lack of certain characteristics of prudence
in a multitude. In general the best management
does not accord with the judgment of the mass.
</p>

<p>
A few brief maxims may indicate the natural restrictions
upon such methods. Coperative consumption is
successful: first, where those coperating are fairly
equal in wants and abilities, or closely related through
kinship or friendship; second, where the range of coperation
includes common wants; third, where no one is
given the advantage of credit; fourth, where mutual
confidence selects and sustains a continuous management;
fifth, where frequent and full reports can make
the business plain to all concerned. It would be interesting
to follow the growth of coperative stores and
banking associations from small beginnings to enormous
enterprises, but the limits of this volume will not
permit. This extension may be realized from the statement
that the Rochedale coperative societies of England
now number nearly two thousand, with more than a
million members and nearly seventy-five million dollars
of capital.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='337'/><anchor id='Pg337'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XXVII. Economic Functions Of Government.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Governmental limits.</hi>&mdash;All society recognizes certain
universal wants and the necessity of meeting these with
essential order and the best economy. These universal
wants enforce the organization of society under some
form of government. Such an organization grows out of
the necessity rather than the will of humanity. Hence
government, local or more general, is the direct effort of
individuals in society for the general welfare. Usually the
best test of general welfare is the assent of the majority
of mature and intelligent members of the community.
In the history of the world, however, the importance of
the object to be gained has overcome obstacles in the
will of the governed as much as any other. Among
children the right of the parent to govern for the welfare
of the family is never questioned until character and
wisdom are doubted. Among crude and disorganized
bodies of people, superior wisdom and earnest purpose
make leadership. Yet always, in the end, the ideal of
welfare in any community implies growth of individuals
into authority over themselves as one of its main objects,
if not its chief one. Thus the best government for any
community at any stage of its advancement is the one that
best secures the welfare of all in existing circumstances.
</p>

<pb n='338'/><anchor id='Pg338'/>

<p>
It must be remembered that the chief elements of
welfare are above government. All the kindly affections
which make the chief bonds of society are to be cultivated
by good government, but cannot be forced by any
law, either positive or prohibitive. Individual character
in all its proportions is individual growth, which can be
fostered but not forced. All the catalogue of virtues is
made up of elements of character, not one of which can
be made by force. So government of every grade fosters
the highest welfare of individuals by sustaining virtuous
motives and restraining vicious ones, or rather by encouraging
right action in its enjoyment of welfare and
restraining wrong action by deprivation of welfare.
Government, therefore, is best when its aims are distinctly
confined to universal welfare. The distinctly
personal wants can be best provided for by affording the
best conditions for free exercise of individual powers.
Governments can never wisely do favors for a class,
since such favors weaken the power of government for
promoting general welfare. What government does for
any it needs to do for all. What it does for all it must
secure to each in fair proportion. In any effort to extend
the range of governmental action this natural limit
of universal welfare for individuals must be considered.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Ends of government.</hi>&mdash;In this view of the reasons
for organized government and its natural limits, certain
universal wants can be clearly perceived. Most obvious
is protection against external foes, personal or material.
This universal need, in the presence of personal enemies,
is so plain as to make the crime of treason notorious.
The internal peace of society is just as evidently
<pb n='339'/><anchor id='Pg339'/>
a universal necessity, and so any infringement upon the
order of society, as agreed upon either by express
statute or by the common law of established precedent,
is punished as a crime against all. Personal violence,
even in the shape of private vengeance for wrong done,
is a menace to internal order, and so a crime against
the whole organization. The mutual dependence of
each upon all and all upon each in every-day transactions
enforces the interest of the organization in personal
contracts, and makes the government a partner
with every right-doer against every wrong-doer in all
attempts at fraud or abuse of power of every kind.
This guardianship of personal freedom makes necessary
the bulk of criminal law and most of the machinery of
courts. The arbitration of disputes between interested
parties is a natural sequence of the effort to prevent
violence. Government does not and cannot right
wrongs; it barely saves a remnant of good to the
individual wronged, and furnishes a warning to others
against future wrong.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Universal needs.</hi>&mdash;Every force, external or internal,
which is likely to be injurious to the whole community,
the whole community through its organization is obliged
to combat. Hence the necessity for quarantine against
infections diseases wherever found, and provision
against destructive storms wherever possible. Protection
against the ravages of insects falls into the same
list, and so does every safeguard in which the whole
community is interested. The same principle applies to
positive provisions for welfare in economical ways of
meeting universal wants. The universality of the need
<pb n='340'/><anchor id='Pg340'/>
makes the water supply and the lighting of cities a
proper work for the city organization. If the same machinery
can provide most economically for larger personal
wants without infringing upon the rights of all,
simple economy invites it, and the principles of good
government sustain it. The question of municipal
lighting is simply one of true economy for the entire
body of citizens.
</p>

<p>
For the same reason, that everybody needs it, the
government is obliged to have control of the means of
transit so far as ease and safety and economy to all
require. Government must maintain highways suited
to the needs of the community at all stages of its development.
The question of city management of street car
lines, beyond such control as secures safety and essential
justice, is purely one of economy for all concerned;
that is, for the entire community. This economy
is not settled for one community by the conditions
of any other. It must be decided in each community
whose interests are to be served by the actual need and
abilities of that community.
</p>

<p>
The same may be said in regard to all methods of
providing ready communication of wants and abilities
as needed for mutual welfare. The postal system is a
natural government machine, because every citizen
needs to be within reach of every other citizen in the
same community. If government does not furnish the
machinery, it must control it to the same end. The
extent of the machine must be decided by the extent of
the want. If the want is sufficiently universal, the
organization cannot avoid providing the machinery.
<pb n='341'/><anchor id='Pg341'/>
This principle applies to every form of communication
devised or discovered. The question of government
ownership of telegraph or telephone connections becomes
one of simple economy, whenever the community
finds such means of communication a matter of universal
want. If economy or vested rights of individuals
prevent such provision, government must still guard
these universal interests by inspection and control. The
exact point where government ownership becomes economical
and legitimate must be decided by a careful
weighing of the general interests of the whole community.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Universal education.</hi>&mdash;The necessity for universal
intelligence is so evident that governments not only
recognize and foster benevolent efforts of individuals
for education, but rightly make the organization itself
a direct force in maintaining educational institutions.
Public schools are now universally recognized by most
enlightened people as meeting a universal need, and
therefore one of the essentials of good government.
How extensive such provision should be is still an unsettled
question. In fact, it can never be finally settled
in any growing community, because the universal need
of the community becomes more and more extended. So
far as universal intelligence depends upon the higher
intelligence of leaders in the community, the whole
mass is interested in the training of that higher intelligence.
The very nature of education, shedding its light
over all in its neighborhood, makes every member of the
community a sharer in the advantages of university
training. Hence governments rightly and economically
<pb n='342'/><anchor id='Pg342'/>
administer educational systems which involve the welfare
of all. The same responsibility makes improper
the use of public funds in support of private institutions
without such restrictions as insure the good
of all.
</p>

<p>
The propriety of governmental control of churches
and religious training must rest upon the same basis of
principle. Religion is of such a personal nature, so
wholly a matter of conscience, that it cannot be said in
any proper sense to be universal. Yet the need of
religions sentiment and freedom in development of that
sentiment is universal. The state does well to provide
security for religious thought, practices and fostering
influences in all governmental machinery. On this
ground the civil law protects a Sabbath. The state
church has had its apparent reason for existence, and
still has in many parts of the world, from the close connection
between religious training and popular education.
Naturally state churches emphasize the educational
side of religions institutions. The world is
coming to see more clearly the dividing line between
information or thought about religion and religious
action in faith, its common basis, and can leave the
latter for individual growth.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Government wards.</hi>&mdash;The welfare of the whole reaches
finally to a guardianship over such individuals in the
community as endanger, either by weakness or by
wickedness, that welfare. For this reason government
can maintain asylums for the weak or diseased, or even
the extremely ignorant, not simply to protect these individuals,
perhaps not chiefly for that purpose, but to
<pb n='343'/><anchor id='Pg343'/>
protect the whole. It can rightly and wisely enforce
such protection by health regulations and officers, and
by truant laws and officials. Upon this principle it may
rightly constrain even the friends of insane persons to
give up control of the insane to the safer public provision
in asylums. When any community realizes a similar
need with reference to inebriates, it will assume the same
constraining authority.
</p>

<p>
In dealing with the problem of personal wickedness,
a community must still draw the line between universal
and individual welfare. The criminal injures all;
therefore all must constrain him, and effort is made to
measure that constraint by the evidence of opposition to
public welfare. Vices are more distinctly individual.
They touch the universal welfare in those forms which
propagate vice in neighborhoods. Governments universally
fail to enforce laws against personal vices wherever
the danger to upright character in other persons is not
clearly perceived. All restrictive legislation upon
vicious habits, like intemperance, gambling or other
immoral practices, is naturally aimed first at the places
contrived to foster such habits, and therefore to attack
the innocent. The actual working of such legislation in
preventing the growth of vice is the only final test of its
wisdom. What it <emph>can</emph> do is what it <emph>ought</emph> to do. In
general the actual public sentiment in local communities
must be the main dependence for executing such laws.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Protection of the weak.</hi>&mdash;The common statement that
government must protect the weak against the strong is
subject to the same principle of universal welfare, and
is applicable only where society has definitely recognized
<pb n='344'/><anchor id='Pg344'/>
rules of good order which somebody is violating. Any
attempt to supply to the weak a strength which they
cannot wield is necessarily a failure. But society as a
whole rightly shields children and youth, and even
women of mature years, from burdens which may injure
the general health or wisdom or virtue of the community.
Laws prohibiting contracts which involve such
burdens can be enforced so far as the community appreciates
the evil of such contracts. So, to a certain extent,
weakness from ignorance may be protected by any
method that tends to remove the cause of weakness. All
such action of government must be carefully guarded
against becoming such a protection as will render the
weak weaker.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Public responsibility.</hi>&mdash;The organization of community
is best for the mass of the people when all desires
are allowed to give their proper impulse to action,
and when every enterprise is encouraged by freedom
until it is seen to infringe upon the general welfare.
Any system of government which checks natural impulses
and hinders individual enterprise, without clear
evidence that all must suffer from such freedom, is
harmful. The genuine application of the phrase
"laissez faire" is in giving honest efforts free course,
because these efforts secure the largest good. It really
means, leave humanity free until injury is attempted.
In general, government has to deal with all necessities
which are identical throughout the community. Provision
for those necessities and those only it is bound
to make.
</p>

<p>
All questions of nationalization of industries or of
<pb n='345'/><anchor id='Pg345'/>
community consumption must be brought to the test of
universal need. What the whole community wants the
whole community has a right to provide in the way
which brings most good with least expenditure of exertion
in any form. No other question can outweigh in
importance this one of public need or public welfare.
Every producer and every consumer is interested in seeing
that such welfare is not overlooked by the public, or
infringed upon by any individual or combination of individuals
in his community. This must be done by
emphasizing personal responsibility, even in public enterprises.
For the statement is beyond dispute, that the
attempt to substitute corporate responsibility for personal
responsibility ends in no responsibility at all.
Above all things it is necessary to remember that all the
progress yet made from the starvation and degradation
of barbarism has been by organized interest of the whole
community in protecting first individual life, second individual
liberty, and third individual property, as the
foundation of universal welfare. Yet society holds all
these rights of individuals subject to the same higher
law of welfare by restricting the purpose of individuals
when possible, and action always, if it opposes the
total welfare.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='346'/><anchor id='Pg346'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter XXVIII. Economic Machinery Of Government.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Resources of government.</hi>&mdash;All expenditures of government
are as subject to economic laws with reference
to consumption of wealth as are those of individuals.
Actual result in welfare is the only reason for such
expenditure. Hence the same tests of economy are
applied. Government makes but few expenditures for
the immediate purpose of reproducing and increasing
wealth. So far as its investments sustain productive
industry, and the products of that industry enter into
the world's market, they are subject to the same
economic laws of supply and demand that govern all
production of wealth. If in any case they are not, it
is because of government monopoly cornering the
market, or because of unnatural conditions of government
production undermining the market. In general,
government is simply expending for the common welfare
a part of the wealth produced by individual effort.
</p>

<p>
Its resources are in small part derived from fees for
special services rendered to individuals of the community.
Such are fees for registration of deeds and mortgages,
and of the same nature, though for convenience
of collection paid in a different way, is the revenue from
sale of postage stamps and stamped envelopes. Revenue
<pb n='347'/><anchor id='Pg347'/>
may come from pay for certain special privileges or
franchises established by license or patent. These are
supposed to be not so much in payment for special
service as for sharing in responsibility and cost of protection.
Another source of revenue is in the shape of
money penalty, or fine, for minor trespasses upon good
order. Such revenues are accidental, and diminish as
the government becomes more perfect. Under peculiar
circumstances of opposition by citizens or bodies of
citizens to the general order, government confiscates
property used in such opposition. A good illustration of
this is connected with smuggling, where the introducer
of foreign goods opposes government in its revenue laws
by fraud or violence, and suffers the confiscation of
goods so introduced.
</p>

<p>
None of the foregoing sources of revenue, unless it
be the license, and this is sometimes a mere method of
taxation, can serve to any great extent the purposes of
government. All government expenditures for general
welfare must finally be met by some system of distributing
the burden over all the people. This method of
distribution is called taxation. The principal revenue
is raised by taxation of possessors and producers of
wealth, in anticipation of current public needs.
</p>

<p>
If for any reason government expenditures exceed
its revenues, the government, like any individual, becomes
a borrower. It may borrow by contract to pay
at some future time for construction of buildings or
machinery, or by issue of scrip in the shape of promises
to pay at some definite or indefinite time in the future,
or more distinctly still by sale of bonds, which are
<pb n='348'/><anchor id='Pg348'/>
definite certificates of indebtedness, negotiated like the
notes of individuals in great banking centers. Yet all
of these are only methods of postponing the taxation
which must support the government in its necessary
machinery. Government can live upon credit in the
same way, and only in the same way, that individuals
can. The economic reasons for such credit must be the
same as in individual experience.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Principles of taxation.</hi>&mdash;Since taxation in general
is simply a way of distributing expenses to those for
whose benefit expenditure has been made, the first question
is one of fairness in distribution. The benefits
from government expenditure ought to be universal, but
are not necessarily equal. Like all the good things of nature,
the benefits of the government are not appreciated
by all alike. No one would probably suggest the possibility
of distributing the expenditure exactly in accord
with advantage received. Wherever the service is distinctly
personal, as in the regular mail service, an
attempt is made to charge each person the average cost
of the service. Even the large miscellaneous mail distribution
at less than cost may be fairly borne by those
who use the mail for personal advantage, since this is
likely to be in proportion to the intelligent activity
shown in correspondence. Some few taxes upon special
commodities of questionable advantage to the multitude,
like liquors and tobacco, are supposed to be paid
by those who gain the only advantage received by anybody
in protecting their use.
</p>

<p>
Some more general principle, however, must be
found for adjusting the burden of general expenses so
<pb n='349'/><anchor id='Pg349'/>
that each individual will bear his share. If the burden
belongs to all, it should rest fairly upon all. Hence
equality is usually given as the first principle of taxation.
But it is evident that in this case equality means
equity, not a mathematical division by the number of
taxpayers. The interpretation is therefore <q>according
to ability.</q> According to Professor Rogers, the student
of economic history, <q><emph>Equality of sacrifice is the only
honest rule in taxation</emph>.</q> This means, in practice, that
any system of taxation should be planned with distinct
effort to distribute the common expenses according to
the ability of different members of society to meet
them.
</p>

<p>
It is evident that no exact gauge of ability is at
hand. If the actual income of every citizen could be
distinctly known, and the burdens of a dependent household
clearly expressed, a basis for equal sacrifice, so far
as wealth is concerned, might be reached. But no such
basis has been or can be actually found. If found, it
would not give an accurate gauge of sacrifice, because
the actual wants for comfort of different individuals are
so widely varied. Two distinct approximations toward
this equity are found. The first is in the total annual
consumption of the individual taxpayer, especially of
such articles as meet wants above the mere maintenance
of healthy existence. In this the government assumes
that all will spend according to their ability. The
second is in a total accumulation of property. In this
the government assumes that every man saves for future
consumption all that he gains above his present needs.
Both assumptions are untrue in individual cases, and
<pb n='350'/><anchor id='Pg350'/>
only approximately true anywhere. In many instances
the expenditure of a given year upon more continuous
wants than ordinary, like a home or farm buildings, will
count also as wealth laid by. So, in any combination of
the two systems of taxation, the more thrifty and far-seeing
will bear a double burden. Yet even this combination
may not transgress the rule of equity, since
such foresight is itself proof of ability.
</p>

<p>
To this first principle of equity we may add others,
less fundamental, but equally important in practice.
<emph>Taxes must be sufficiently definite to be understood and
provided for by every taxpayer.</emph> This is needed for
maintaining the interest of every citizen in both the
necessity and the economy of public expenditures.
<emph>Taxes must be so levied and collected as to be conveniently
paid.</emph> This means that private enterprise shall be
hindered as little as possible in making assessments,
and that times and places of collection shall be suited
to the convenience of taxpayers. <emph>The collection of taxes
must be by such methods as will involve least outlay, either
in salaries of officials or in machinery of the collecting
process.</emph> These four principles of taxation were announced
by Adam Smith more than a hundred years
ago, and have commended themselves to students of the
subject ever since. It is evident that the last three are
more explicit methods for carrying out the first. Most
briefly stated; they imply equity, definiteness, convenience
of paying, and economy in collecting.
</p>

<p>
Most legislation with reference to taxes shows some
effort to carry out one, if not all, of these requirements.
It is evident that a tax may be conveniently
<pb n='351'/><anchor id='Pg351'/>
paid in connection with ordinary expenditures, and at
the same time be very indefinite and quite inequitable.
Many taxes upon articles of every-day use in the home
are of this nature. A very equitable tax may be so
inconvenient from its interference with private interests,
and require so many officials for collection, as to make
it a serious burden to all. Such a tax would be one
levied upon net income, supposing it possible to discover
the exact facts for such a levy. Taxes levied without
consideration of these principles are defended as means
of checking extravagance or vice, as equalizing other
conditions of welfare, or as correcting inequalities from
other existing methods of taxation. Even these last
assume the necessity of equity in the entire system or
group of systems.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Direct and indirect taxation.</hi>&mdash;For convenience of
study, taxes are spoken of as either direct or indirect;
that is, a tax may be levied upon one whose property or
earnings must be reduced by the amount of the tax, or
a tax may be levied upon one whose property when sold,
or whose service when rendered to another, will be worth
as much more as the burden of the tax he has paid. A
poll tax, an income tax, a tax on the farm, or a tax on
household goods and jewelry, is assumed to be paid by
the owner or user, without reimbursement. But a tax on
stock in trade&mdash;like the farmer's live stock&mdash;or upon
the machinery of production or service&mdash;like railroads,
insurance companies and banks&mdash;is assumed to be
transferred as an additional expense to the one who
finally enjoys the wealth.
</p>

<p>
It is easy to see that such a distinction is difficult.
<pb n='352'/><anchor id='Pg352'/>
Every owner of wealth will consider taxes connected
with its possession a part of the cost of such wealth,
and wherever possible in the conditions of the market
will count a tax in the selling price. It is impossible to
judge from the form of wealth or the nature of the service
when the tax can be transferred to a final user. A
farmer's wheat may be the source from which he pays
the total cost of raising it, including taxes upon the land
employed. If, in the condition of the wheat market, he
has still a profit upon his management, he will assume
that the wheat buyers have paid the taxes. If the
market price is so low as to not cover the cost, he will
emphasize the fact that he pays the taxes. Yet probably
the fact is the same in both cases, that the owner of
the land has his profits diminished by the actual amount
of the tax. More strictly, the tax is taken from the
rent of his land. In any case of over-production, when
land gives no rent, the tax will be paid by the producer
out of other income. So far, however, as farm products
conform to the principle of cost of production in the
tendency of prices, there will be a corresponding tendency
to shift the tax upon the final consumer.
</p>

<p>
Thus direct and indirect taxes are not always distinguishable;
but in the tax systems of the United
States most state and municipal taxes are assumed to be
direct, because levied upon persons and more permanent
forms of property, while the taxes of the general government
are by the Constitution indirect, unless levied
upon the states according to population. They are in the
form of customs or excise, in which some article of
commerce or some service rendered gives a value upon
<pb n='353'/><anchor id='Pg353'/>
which the tax may be transferred. Thus the state, the
county, the city and the school district levy upon assessment
of property and enumeration of polls. The United
States collects upon imported goods of various kinds,
upon special articles of manufacture, upon persons or
corporations carrying on particular business, and upon
commercial transactions of various kinds.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Assessment of direct taxes.</hi>&mdash;Assessment implies an
enumeration of property in the possession of supposed
owners and an appraisement of its value. The officer
making the assessment is under constraint of an official
oath to give a fair valuation. The market price is supposed
to control his judgment, and is usually explicitly
named in law.
</p>

<p>
In actual practice in various states of the Union assessed
valuation often falls as low as one-third or even
one-fifth of a fair estimate at market value. This is
brought about by several causes. Each assessor fears
over-valuation, lest his district will bear too large a
share of more general expenses; and his successor is inclined
rather to lower than raise the standard of value,
from neighborly interest. Even if the assessors of an
entire county agree upon terms of valuation, they are
together under the same influence with reference to state
and special taxes. A more definite cause of under-valuation
is the practice of exempting a certain limited
amount of property from all taxes. If personal property
worth $200 is exempt from taxation for every householder,
the smaller the assessment for his total property,
the larger in proportion is the exemption. Specific taxes
at a fixed rate, for state or school or improvement purposes,
<pb n='354'/><anchor id='Pg354'/>
operate in the same way to force down the valuation
of property in the entire state or district. In
assessment of real estate even greater violence is sometimes
done to equity. In newly settled portions of the
country the valuation of land held in the name of non-resident
owners is notoriously high. Often in cities the
assessor is subject to political influences and social connections
in such a way as to destroy all equity in
taxation. The official oath attached to such assessments
is a sham.
</p>

<p>
If all property of stated kinds were equally and
fairly valued, the burden of taxation would be most
fairly distributed as regards property owners. Any
tendency to undervalue is sure to oppress the weaker
part of these property holders. If the price of a horse
is fixed at twenty dollars, when the average price is
sixty, the more wealthy owner of horses whose average
value is above the general average has a larger part of
his property exempt than the poorer owner whose horses
are below the average. In the same ratio all household
goods and even farms and buildings are under-estimated.
</p>

<p>
In this connection it is proper to mention the exemption
of certain property devoted wholly to public welfare
and contributing alike to the good of all citizens. In
every state there are multitudes of schools, created and
sustained by gifts of benevolent men. These supplement
and extend the work of the state for general enlightenment,
and are wisely encouraged by exemption
from the burden of taxation, because their entire income
is devoted to the same ends which the state serves.
Public libraries and churches, devoted to such general
<pb n='355'/><anchor id='Pg355'/>
enlightenment and moral growth, are wisely included in
this exemption. Nobody suffers, but everybody gains,
by the use of private property for such purposes. If in
any way these institutions serve the private ends of
individuals, those individuals become themselves property
owners, subject to the same taxation as others.
Such exemptions may extend even to art collections
made by private funds, and to extensive grounds laid
out in parks, provided they are open to the public and
serve as a means of wholesome recreation and culture.
</p>

<p>
In general, however, specific exemptions of private
property from any taxes lead to abuse of privileges,
jealousies and popular dissatisfaction, which result in
danger to government and harm to the people.
Exemptions of property used for particular purposes,
like a farmer's team, may be thought of as a bounty
upon such means of production. But the effect is almost
always to the disadvantage of the weak, and the practice
gives a general encouragement to the disposition to
escape taxes. Farmers, of all classes of people, are
most interested in a fair and painstaking assessment
of all forms of property. Their influence is most
widely extended and far-reaching in its effects. The
whole community should be led to realize the absolute
necessity of fair taxation and prompt meeting of individual
responsibility. Fraud in the treatment of taxes
is a crime against society, whether it involves false
swearing or not. It partakes of the nature of treason,
and may well be subjected to severe penalties. Usually,
however, a penalty in the shape of additional taxes and
forfeiture of property by sale for taxes, with room for
<pb n='356'/><anchor id='Pg356'/>
redemption at considerable expense, are sufficient to
secure a proper assessment and collection, if the community
are really in earnest in resisting the fraud.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Indirect taxes.</hi>&mdash;The methods of indirect taxation
by excise and custom duties have been familiar for ages.
They are usually favored by politicians who dread the
opposition of the people to taxation, because the collection
is so incidental to ordinary expenditures as scarcely
to be realized and never clearly measured. Few users
of tobacco or strong drink have any distinct idea what
portion of the cost represents the government revenue.
Still less in drinking the cup of coffee, or sweetening it
with sugar, does the person benefited weigh the tax he
pays. It is doubtful if most of those who read this,
actually know that sugar pays a tax, while tea and
coffee do not, in our country.
</p>

<p>
So convenient is this mode of taxation that it forms
the favorite mode of discrimination in favor of productive
industries. A tariff of 50 per cent upon imported
cloth may actually increase the price of similar cloths
manufactured at home by nearly that amount, thus
fostering cloth-making by a premium on the product,
while only a few discover the added burden of the
tax. Yet these modes of taxation are usually costly to
the people. Even if free from complications with either
preventing vice or fostering industry, they require a
separate body of officials from those provided for direct
taxation. They involve investment by every wholesale
and retail dealer of extra capital in taxes, upon which
extra interest and profit is expected. The actual consumer
bears this extra burden with only partial realization
<pb n='357'/><anchor id='Pg357'/>
of its bulk. If duties are high, the temptation to
smuggling and fraud becomes great, and a force of officials
must be stretched around the borders of a country
to prevent it.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Custom, or duty.</hi>&mdash;Duties are said to be either specific
or ad valorem. Specific duties are a definite sum upon
every pound, ton, yard or other unit of measure, applied
to the article taxed. They are easily assessed, and
misrepresentation or fraud is scarcely possible. Ad
valorem duties are a certain rate per cent upon the invoice
value of the goods. In these, frauds are abundant,
and experts are required to prevent them. Specific
duties are relatively heavy upon the consumers of
goods of cheaper quality. A tax of 25 cents on each
yard of cloth worth a dollar is five times as heavy
as the same tax on cloth worth five dollars. Equalization
is frequently attempted by combination of
specific duties upon all goods of a certain character
with ad valorem duties upon all such goods above a certain
quality.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Excise collections.</hi>&mdash;The same difficulty is experienced
in adjusting taxes by excise under our internal revenue
system. Such revenues are largely collected through a
sale of stamps, though the dealer himself may be required
to pay a license fee, to secure the necessary inspection.
Here, too, the tax is specific and bears most
heavily upon the users of the poorest grade of goods.
If attempt is made to grade it by quality, expensive machinery
for preventing fraud is necessary. This is well
illustrated in the list of officials required in connection
with distilleries and bonded warehouses. Both the
<pb n='358'/><anchor id='Pg358'/>
manufacture and the sale of alcoholic liquors must somewhere
be under the inspection of an expert officer. All
this necessary expense of collecting must be borne by
the consumers. The bonded warehouse itself must not
be mistaken for a part of this machinery, though it is
essential to the collection. It is simply a device by
which the holder of manufactured liquors subject to sale
can avoid the payment of a tax until the time of actual
delivery. His warehouse, being under bonds to the government,
is open only in the presence of the revenue
officer, who carries one of the keys necessary to its opening.
Without this the tax would have to be paid at time
of manufacture, and interest on that amount, to greater
or less extent would finally be paid by the consumer.
While this system protects essentially against fraud on
the part of the owner alone, it does not protect against
the weakness or wickedness of officials, and the temptation
is sometimes enormous.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Peculiar taxes.</hi>&mdash;Aside from these general forms of
taxation, peculiar devices are common. The stamps required
on official papers or commercial transactions, involving
checks, notes, mortgages and deeds, have been
familiar at various times in our country, and are associated
with the history of the world. These differ little
from the practice of affixing stamps to patent medicines,
cigars and other articles of trade; but instead of being
attached to the article transferred they are affixed to the
check or note or deed or bond employed in the transaction.
These bear unequally, being proportionally heavy
upon the people of small means, and are generally
annoying in active business. They are frequently
<pb n='359'/><anchor id='Pg359'/>
favored, however, as being felt most by those who deal
most in commerce.
</p>

<p>
The heavy taxes laid upon the consumption of alcoholic
liquors and tobacco illustrate another device for
making so-called luxury bear the heavier portion of
taxes. It looks both ways, attempting to check luxurious
living or vicious practices by a penalty for indulgence,
and at the same time to secure a revenue as the
result of such indulgence. Evidently in so far as it
prohibits indulgence it is not a revenue measure; and in
so far as it secures the revenue it does not prohibit indulgence.
It is borne somewhat patiently, because each
person feels that he can avoid the payment by ceasing to
indulge himself. The universal tendency is to make it
purely a revenue measure by fixing the tax just where it
will not retard consumption in any material degree, and
in some instances will give a quasi dignity to the dealer
through his official license.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Taxation of credits.</hi>&mdash;A very common device adopted
in most of the states is that of assessing credits as well
as property. The majority of farmers favor the assessment
of mortgages upon a valuation equal to, if not
higher than, that upon farms. They forget that the
ability to pay taxes from year to year comes out of the
profit or rent from the farm; and if both farm and
mortgage are taxed, the adjustment comes through the
interest which the mortgage must bear. To illustrate, a
father sells his farm, worth $5,000, to his son, taking a
mortgage for the entire value. If mortgages are assessed,
the value of that farm for all purposes of taxation
is $10,000; and yet the living of both father and
<pb n='360'/><anchor id='Pg360'/>
son, taxes included, comes out of that farm's production.
The two have no more property and no more
ability after the transaction than before. Thus the
mortgaged farms in every community where mortgages
are taxed bear double burden.
</p>

<p>
In a similar way the taxation of any form of notes
or bonds or stock doubles the assessment in form without
increasing the abilities. <emph>The actual property in use
will finally bear the burden of both assessments.</emph> The
road-bed and rolling stock of a railway are property
whose value is readily estimated. The actual ownership
is in a corporation which may be distinctly taxed. Certificates
of stock are individual titles in that corporation
whose property has already been taxed. Its outstanding
bonds are simply claims against that corporation, to be
paid out of that property which has already been taxed.
So every note, being evidence of debt simply, is not a
representative of property, but simply a claim against
property supposed to exist somewhere else. It may be
an absolute fiction, in being a claim against property
only hoped for. The result of all efforts to treat certificates
of indebtedness as personal property are hardship
to debtors and apparent fraud on the part of many
creditors. Even though the creditor escapes taxation by
hiding his possession of a mortgage, the possibility of
its being taxed is always counted in his bargain with the
borrower as an important element in interest. The experience
of those states in which such taxation has been
abolished proves that lower rates of interest are sure
to follow.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Income taxes.</hi>&mdash;A favorite device in some countries,
<pb n='361'/><anchor id='Pg361'/>
and often advocated in this, is a direct tax upon incomes
above a certain amount, graduated so as to give
a much larger rate upon large incomes than upon more
moderate ones. The most obvious reason for such a
distinction against the large incomes is the evident
failure of our national system of taxation to distribute
the burden according to ability. It is evident that the
expenditures of the very wealthy for such articles as
bring revenue to the government are not in the same
proportion to their income as the expenditures of the
poorer people are to their incomes. A further reason is
based upon the supposition that large incomes involve a
considerable unearned increment, in the shape of rent
or extraordinary profits, because of accidental opportunity
or the crowding of population. An income tax,
carefully graduated, is supposed to cause such extra
privileges and opportunities to bear a fair share of government
expenses.
</p>

<p>
There are several difficulties in administering such
a tax which have stood in the way of its general and
permanent adoption. No one has yet devised a certain
or fair method of estimating income. The peculiarities
of any business or employment make great variation in
the ability given by a certain income in dollars and
cents. The business man in a small town, with an income
of $5,000, might live in relative luxury, and still
have a surplus for investment in his business. The
same man, attempting business in a large city, might,
even with an income of $10,000, find it barely possible
to keep up appearances. The income of farmers is
largely in provisions and personal privileges from use of
<pb n='362'/><anchor id='Pg362'/>
teams, etc., never counted in dollars and cents, while
the village mechanic pays from his measured income for
all such comforts, or goes without them. The actual,
necessary expenses of the business of a professional
man in the way of books and travel are as essential to
his business as are farm implements and live stock to
the farm; yet no one counts such expenses as a subtraction
from the income. A teacher promoted to a
higher position is at once subjected to extraordinary
expenses, and may be less able with a higher salary to
meet the requirements of his new life than he was with
a lower salary to meet the less expensive requirements.
</p>

<p>
Another principal difficulty is the unpopularity of
such a tax from its necessary interference with private
business. The country will be almost certainly more
divided along lines of wealth over an income tax than
over anything else. On the part of the wealthy it
seems an effort of the people to take from them actual
property rights. On the part of the poorer classes it
fosters the assumption that the more wealthy are unjustly
so. In the nature of the case, it is an arbitrary
adjustment without the possibility of establishing exact
reasons for any distinctions made. Finally, since such
distinctions are liable to be varied from time to time, an
income tax requires some nice adjustment as to the
nature of the income. An income from the sale of
property is entirely different in character from the income
made by interest on the same property. One is a
part of permanent investment, the other is the result of
productive investment. One destroys the principal if
consumed, the other adds to the principal. Yet no one
<pb n='363'/><anchor id='Pg363'/>
could arrive at the actual, natural income, without a
most intricate system of book-keeping open to public
inspection. For without public inspection the temptation
to fraudulent returns, under the feeling that the
tax is unjust, is so strong as to be demoralizing.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Inheritance taxes.</hi>&mdash;A device much employed for
making large accumulations of wealth bear a larger
portion of the community's burdens is a heavy tax upon
inheritance. Since such inheritance requires the guardianship
of law for security of transfer, government is
suffered to take a liberal fee for such transfer. Moreover,
the inheritor is assumed to have no such property
interest in what has been accumulated by another as to
claim that he can be wronged if government takes a
portion. It is defended also by socialists on the ground
that large estates are dangerous to the general welfare.
</p>

<p>
Some facts bear upon the opposite side, and are
worthy of consideration. A large estate is the accumulation
of enterprise and industry on the part of a man
of more than ordinary abilities. The presumption is in
favor of following his judgment in making that useful
after his death. Most frequently it is employed in some
huge industrial machine, which the public cannot manage,
but can destroy by even taking a portion from it.
One of the main stimulants to all accumulation is the
provision for the future wants of a family. If the state
takes the accumulation, it also takes the responsibility
for the successors in the family line. Wherever it is
applied, it is felt to be a heavy burden upon the community
at large. If the state interferes with the freedom
of a testator, the chances are that few estates will
<pb n='364'/><anchor id='Pg364'/>
be accumulated, and wasteful methods of expenditure,
diminishing the power of the entire community, will
surely follow. Moreover, evasions of the inheritance
tax are comparatively easy, and are likely to be adopted
extensively by the holders of large estates. The very
rich can give away a large portion of their property before
death without material suffering. Only the moderately
wealthy are obliged to hold on to their possessions
until death. Any wealthy man can dispose of his
wealth during his lifetime, and still retain its income,
by giving it away, subject to an annuity. To prevent
this the law would have to be extended with intricate
inspection to cover all transfers of property. Let no
one be deceived into feeling that this is a simple and
easy way of saddling government expenses upon the
rich.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Special taxes.</hi>&mdash;A multitude of minor devices are
worthy of brief consideration. An occupation tax on
business men is easily levied, but bears unequally upon
the original payers, and in the end falls most heavily
upon the poorest. A house tax, measured by the number
of rooms, or the number of windows, or the number
of fireplaces, has been supposed adjustable to actual income
of the possessors. But it bears very heavily upon
men in certain professions requiring house-room, and
forces the poor into narrow and crowded quarters. The
rent of the poor is necessarily a larger proportion of
their living expenses than that of the well-to-do. It is
a serious hardship when a tax is levied upon that which
a man cannot possibly save.
</p>

<p>
A tax upon retail dealers and peddlers is frequently
<pb n='365'/><anchor id='Pg365'/>
advocated, as tending to prevent the increase of unnecessary
middlemen and wasteful competition. Yet this,
too, bears heavily upon the poor, since it crowds out
also those who are satisfied with small profits and deal
in small sales. Even a tax upon pawnbrokers, whose
profits are supposed to be extraordinary, gives occasion
for a sharper grinding of the poor. A study of all these
devices will lead one to the conclusion that a tax upon
property only, based upon a fair valuation and paid by
the controller of the property, is fairest to the whole
community and leads to truest conceptions of the relation
of property to public expenditure. It is certainly
best for rural welfare.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>A single land tax.</hi>&mdash;A brief consideration must be
given to a proposed system of taxation, commonly
known as the single land tax. The proposition is to
tax all lands, including building sites, to such an extent
as may be necessary to meet all public expenditures.
The lands are to be valued for this purpose at the rent
they will bring, independent of all improvements. The
supposition is that such an income is due entirely to the
effect of crowding population, and therefore belongs to
society as a whole rather than to the individual possessing
it. In fact, if the state were to consume the
entire economic rent, it would take only, it is said,
what already belongs to the community. Other supposed
advantages of the single tax system are the reduced
expense of assessment and collection, together
with incidental effects in promoting production by
removing burdens from capital, in preventing the holding
of land unproductive, possibly in equalizing wealth
<pb n='366'/><anchor id='Pg366'/>
and diminishing greed for landed property, while the
poorer, cheaper agricultural lands, having no rent
value, would be relieved of all burden. These are
essentially the views maintained by the followers of
Henry George, the leading champion of such taxation.
It is claimed, further, that the poor in crowded cities
would be better housed, since buildings would bear no
taxation, and holders of city lots would make them productive
through construction of buildings without
adding to their burden of taxation. It is claimed also
that such taxation would be finally distributed, and
fairly distributed, among all the consumers of products
affected by land possession, as well as all even indirectly
making use of the land. Since food and shelter
are universal, all would contribute, so far as they are
self-dependent, according to food consumed and space
occupied.
</p>

<p>
These statements are somewhat inconsistent with
each other. If rent is of such a nature, as assumed at
the beginning of the argument, that it cannot directly
affect all values because it depends upon those values
for its existence, a tax levied upon it cannot be distributed
but rests wholly upon the landholder. If, on the
other hand, a tax on land is distributed among all consumers
of its products, there is no economic rent, but
the burden rests upon the consumers alone, according to
the amount consumed, subjecting this tax to the objection
against all indirect taxes that the poor bear the
heavier burden.
</p>

<p>
It is evident, too, that such a tax must bear heavily
upon the unthrifty. The valuation of farms must be
<pb n='367'/><anchor id='Pg367'/>
made by an expert judge of what farms similarly situated
ought to produce. A farm valued at $500 annual
rent might, under thrifty management, produce twice
as much as under unthrifty management. The tax,
under thrifty management, could be easily paid; under
unthrifty management, it would ruin the manager. This
certainly does not levy the tax according to ability. It
also bears heavily upon the enterprising young farmer
whose capital is small, as compared with the long-established
farmer with accumulated capital. The man weak
in capital would bear as heavy a burden as the strong.
</p>

<p>
Again, it provides no system of taxation in newly
settled communities where land has practically no value
except from improvements. Unless a fictitious value
be given to such land for purposes of taxation, as sometimes
happens with reference to non-resident land-holders,
no government could be maintained.
</p>

<p>
Finally, since under this system government assumes
a control over landed estates, from which it exempts all
other forms of property, it tends toward the nationalization
of land, which would necessarily destroy the
system itself. For if government claims all increment
from land production, land ceases to be property and
does not pass from owner to owner at a market value:
then government fixes arbitrarily the rental of space,
and taxation is distributed upon a new principle. If a
new principle were not to be assumed, there could
hardly be a device conceived more likely to make the
rich richer and the poor poorer. Farmers, of all men,
are best situated to realize the unequal workings of a
single land tax system.
</p>

<pb n='368'/><anchor id='Pg368'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Government debts.</hi>&mdash;An important part of government
machinery is connected with its ability to make
use of borrowed capital. Under the pressure of heavy
expenditures in case of war, or in undertaking permanent
improvements in a new country, or in carrying on
various enterprises for common welfare, the demand for
means is greater than the supply from ordinary modes
of taxation. Not even the special devices of war taxes
can meet at once the burdens of a defensive war. The
rightfulness of such expenditures upon the credit of the
government depends upon the object to be secured. The
expense of the war which defends and preserves the
future home of posterity may properly be borne in part,
at least, by posterity. The court house, the water
works, or the electric plant, whose benefits will be shared
by the people for a hundred years, may properly be so
constructed that all the people benefited may share in
the burden. Good economy requires the foresight which
builds beyond mere present need. The danger is that
expenditure made under expectation that others will pay
may be wasteful, and often other reasons than actual
needs in the interest of private speculation control.
</p>

<p>
Nevertheless, there is good reason for government
debts; and every form of government, from the loftiest
to the most insignificant, finds such indebtedness easy to
contract. The smallest school district can issue scrip in
payment of its teacher, or can issue bonds for the construction
of its school-house. Only the general government,
under our laws, can borrow by issuing due-bills
in the form of legal tender notes. All of these certificates
of indebtedness enter into the general commerce under
<pb n='369'/><anchor id='Pg369'/>
the common law of supply and demand, and bear an
economic price proportional to the certainty of their
final payment and the convenience of their use in commercial
transactions. The exemption of national
bonds, or even state bonds, from local taxation works no
more hardship than the exemption of state property.
Under ordinary circumstances the entire advantage of
such exemption is gained by the state, and so by all the
taxpayers of the state. The exemption of national
bonds from every form of taxation prohibits interference
with the government's privilege of borrowing when and
where it can, and the advantage comes back to the
people <emph>in full</emph> through the low rate of interest or the
premium in price which such bonds bear. They are
subject to fluctuations in value through their being a
means of transferring floating capital between industries.
Under a stable government, with a somewhat permanent
debt, a holder of bonds is a sort of stockholder in
the governmental wealth, with definite stated dividends
rather than profits.
</p>

<p>
Such bonds have various effects upon a general industry
of the country. While they lessen somewhat the
immediate burdens of present productive industries,
they may increase the burden of the same industries in
a second generation. Their convenience in securing annuities
for long series of years may diminish the enterprise
of a community by fostering a class of non-producers,
whose wealth is represented in the display of
government buildings rather than in productive enterprises.
Just so far as government employs the capital
of the country through bonds, it diminishes the capital
<pb n='370'/><anchor id='Pg370'/>
which would otherwise find investment in productive
employment. The danger of extravagance to even small
communities, from the ease with which such government
debts can be contracted, warrants the contrivance of
strong constitutional limitations. Indeed, provision, not
only against extravagant debt, but for reasonably prompt
settlement, may well be required by constitutional law.
All property holders, but especially land holders, are
interested in preventing extravagant outlay by means of
bonded indebtedness. Farmers must know that the
burden will have to be borne, with all the natural additions,
by the property they hold, and the value of that
property will be lessened by whatever extra burden
it bears.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Settlement of government debts.</hi>&mdash;The settlement of
government debts is a matter of uncertain provision.
In many instances there has been a tendency toward a
permanent debt. The United States has shown a surprising
capacity for making such debts for all sorts of
purposes, but has also shown an equally surprising
ability in payment. And yet examples are not wanting,
even in our own country, of a tendency to indefinite
postponement and a rapidly increasing burden, until
settlement could be made only by compromise or a total
repudiation. The effect of such bankruptcy of nation,
state or municipality is like that of any failing enterprise,
only more widely felt. The repudiation of a
government debt affects the capital of the country like
the confiscation of estates under ancient tyranny. It
destroys the common faith, which is the basis for true
productive industry. It takes the nation back into the
<pb n='371'/><anchor id='Pg371'/>
dark ages as regards its relation to the individual welfare
of citizens. Every economic reason existing for the
collection of private debts, and leading to government
machinery for collecting such debts, has still greater
force when applied to the debts of governments. The
demoralization, widespread and destructive, which follows
repudiation, or anything resembling it, cannot be
outgrown for generations. The most plausible reasons
for repudiation, except in cases of absolute fraud against
the government, should have no weight with a citizen
who cares for the welfare of his fellow-citizens and their
progress toward that welfare, under the natural laws
concerning wealth. A nation of robbers is safer to live
in than a robbing nation.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='373'/><anchor id='Pg373'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Conclusion.</head>

<p>
It is clear that Rural Welfare, as far at least as it
rests upon Wealth, is to be gained by careful study of
laws of nature and human nature quite independent of
mere wishes. The only way to improve the present
situation of affairs in any community is to use the natural
forces within reach to advantage. All the growth
of the past is preparation for more growth and better
fruit in the present and future. The farmer who
knows most about the fundamental principles of property
and property rights in society is most likely to
best serve his community, as well as himself.
</p>

<p>
Still it is equally clear that the chief elements of
Rural Welfare are not mere wealth. Wealth is but
the material out of which the external machinery of
welfare is formed. Every way essential to progress in
any degree, it does not give the chief test of progress.
No one is gaining the full use of his wealth until it is
well spent for the welfare that is strictly personal,&mdash;health,
wisdom and virtue. No society, however
wealthy, has reached true welfare till all its members
appreciate the higher welfare, and make wealth-seeking
a means for securing it.
</p>

<p>
Rural communities can take advantage of many
inexpensive ways of adding to their welfare without
great wealth. The natural surroundings of the country
<pb n='374'/><anchor id='Pg374'/>
home give development to ability and courage in children
that are better than wealth. The same principles
of thrift that are to be cultivated for the sake of
material comforts apply to the larger welfare that a
wise enjoyment of nature's gifts and nature's lessons
may bring. The thrifty farmer comes nearest of all
men to the ideal condition of the wise man, expressed
in the wish, <q>Give me neither poverty nor riches.</q> He
can have enough to comfortably house, clothe and feed
his family in the midst of surroundings as wholesome
as the world affords. He can give his children, by the
aid of their healthy bodies and strong hearts, as good
opportunities for education as any can use. He has a
natural leisure for self-culture in the use of papers and
books, if he tries to use it, and his relations with neighbors
of similar abilities are more human, more true,
than those found in any other circumstances. If farmers
live as they ought, their homes are centers of true
hospitality, true sympathy for human rights; and with
a little more constant care for neighborly spirit would
come nearest to giving the true foundation for manly
and womanly character in children, and so in their
parents.
</p>

<p>
A family of eight children grew up on a farm of
little more than one hundred acres, chopped out of the
wilderness. Father and mother worked hard and strove
thriftily to make their children useful. A school was
the first requisite, even though it must be taught in
the one room that was kitchen, library and parlor, if
not the bedroom, too. The church was equally important,
though it took the choicest lot on the farm for
<pb n='375'/><anchor id='Pg375'/>
its location. Newspapers and wholesome books were as
needful as daily bread. The household was a center
of cheer and interest for the entire community. The
first Sunday School and the first Temperance Society
of all that new country were organized there. The
trend of national life towards higher ideals of justice
for all humanity was first recognized there, so that
three of the four votes cast in that township for the
first liberty ticket were connected with the same household.
The whole world came nearer these youth because
they learned about it.
</p>

<p>
When opportunity came for larger growth in college
training, all but the oldest boy and the oldest girl
sought it eagerly. These made the old homestead and
a neighboring farm worthy centers of the same true
influence. The three sons and the three daughters
whose education lifted them to a little wider field of influence
are all recognized as having been leaders in this
country, and their names are cherished by thousands
who have known their work. The thrift that has made
them useful in the truest welfare of the world was cultivated
and trained on that little farm.
</p>

<p>
The little farm became itself an evidence of thrift,
attractive in its beauty as well as in its productiveness.
It gave to the father and mother a satisfactory living
till both died, the mother at eighty, and the father at
nearly a hundred. Riches they never needed, for they
had enough with the blessings of children and children's
children scattered through the world. The farm
is still in the family, doing its good work for the
fourth and fifth generations, in the same wholesome
<pb n='376'/><anchor id='Pg376'/>
way and with promise of never-ending welfare. A
little wealth well used means enormous welfare.
</p>

<p>
The farm homes of America will be the seat of
America's welfare if their occupants know all they can
of the thrift that gives power, and do as well as they
know. Farmers who think carefully and earnestly will
not expect to overturn nature as it is, but to use it for
all it is worth. This little book is intended to help
toward such a use of power and wealth as may bring
genuine welfare. Its author hopes in this way to pay
in part the debt he owes to the little farm.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='377'/><anchor id='Pg377'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Index.</head>

<lg>
<l>Abandoned farms, <ref target='Pg303'>303</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Aggregation, disadvantages of, <ref target='Pg197'>197</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>limit to, <ref target='Pg196'>196</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of forces, <ref target='Pg057'>57</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of industry, <ref target='Pg191'>191</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Aims of industry, <ref target='Pg021'>21</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q>Anarchy,</q> <ref target='Pg329'>329</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Annual fluctuations in prices, <ref target='Pg091'>91</ref>, <ref target='Pg098'>98</ref>, <ref target='Pg100'>100</ref>, <ref target='Pg104'>104</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Arbitration in labor conflicts, <ref target='Pg268'>268</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Assessment, direct taxes, <ref target='Pg353'>353</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Association, complex, <ref target='Pg055'>55</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>compound, <ref target='Pg056'>56</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>methods of, <ref target='Pg055'>55</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>simple, <ref target='Pg055'>55</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q>Autonomy,</q> <ref target='Pg328'>328</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Balance of trade, <ref target='Pg152'>152</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Bank business, <ref target='Pg148'>148</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>inspection, <ref target='Pg151'>151</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>liabilities, <ref target='Pg155'>155</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>loans, <ref target='Pg153'>153</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>resources, <ref target='Pg155'>155</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Banking, safety of, <ref target='Pg155'>155</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Banks and banking, <ref target='Pg140'>140</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>described, <ref target='Pg141'>141</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>government, <ref target='Pg147'>147</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>national, <ref target='Pg144'>144</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>state, <ref target='Pg136'>136</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Bankruptcy, <ref target='Pg179'>179</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Beef prices, <ref target='Pg100'>100-106</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Bimetalism, <ref target='Pg126'>126</ref>, <ref target='Pg128'>128</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Bonanza farms, <ref target='Pg201'>201</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Bonds, exemption from taxation, <ref target='Pg369'>369</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>deferred payment, <ref target='Pg160'>160</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Borrowed money, <ref target='Pg164'>164</ref>, <ref target='Pg284'>284</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Borrowers and lenders, <ref target='Pg154'>154</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Bounties, <ref target='Pg207'>207</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Boycott, the, <ref target='Pg262'>262</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Business security, <ref target='Pg224'>224</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Capital a timesaver, <ref target='Pg040'>40</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>circulating or fixed, <ref target='Pg040'>40</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>conservative, <ref target='Pg044'>44</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>defined and classified, <ref target='Pg038'>38</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>distinguished from wealth, <ref target='Pg038'>38</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>floating, <ref target='Pg043'>43</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>in farming, <ref target='Pg043'>43</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of a country, <ref target='Pg039'>39</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>proceeds of, <ref target='Pg279'>279</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>prudent adjustment of, <ref target='Pg314'>314</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'><q>timid,</q> <ref target='Pg044'>44</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>unproductive, <ref target='Pg042'>42</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Cattle, numbers of, <ref target='Pg009'>9</ref>, <ref target='Pg083'>83</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Character in production, <ref target='Pg047'>47</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Cheap living, <ref target='Pg237'>237</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Cheap money drives out good, <ref target='Pg125'>125</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Churches, taxes on, <ref target='Pg354'>354</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Civilization, developing, <ref target='Pg053'>53</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Clearing house, <ref target='Pg149'>149</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Clearing systems, <ref target='Pg150'>150</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Coinage, <ref target='Pg118'>118</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of the United States, <ref target='Pg119'>119</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Coin a country's capital, <ref target='Pg133'>133</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>as currency, <ref target='Pg131'>131</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q>Collectivism,</q> <ref target='Pg331'>331</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Combinations for farming, <ref target='Pg204'>204</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>for production, advantages, <ref target='Pg193'>193</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Commerce overestimated, <ref target='Pg061'>61</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q>Communism,</q> <ref target='Pg330'>330</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Compensation, actual and nominal, <ref target='Pg236'>236</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Complex association, <ref target='Pg055'>55</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Compound association, <ref target='Pg056'>56</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Conclusion, <ref target='Pg373'>373</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Conflict between wage-earners and profit-makers, <ref target='Pg257'>257</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Conservative influence as security for business, <ref target='Pg224'>224</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Consumption, coperative, <ref target='Pg335'>335</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>for growth, <ref target='Pg317'>317</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>luxurious, <ref target='Pg319'>319</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of wealth, <ref target='Pg307'>307</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>wasteful, <ref target='Pg322'>322</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Contents, table of, xi.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Control of natural forces, <ref target='Pg028'>28</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='378'/><anchor id='Pg378'/>

<lg>
<l>Coperative consumption, <ref target='Pg335'>335</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>industry, <ref target='Pg272'>272</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>stores, etc., <ref target='Pg335'>335</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Copyright, <ref target='Pg210'>210</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Corn, acreage and yield, <ref target='Pg084'>84</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>prices of, New York, <ref target='Pg087'>87-91</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>consumption of, <ref target='Pg084'>84</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Cost and value, <ref target='Pg069'>69</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Courts of arbitration, <ref target='Pg268'>268</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Cows, numbers of, <ref target='Pg009'>9</ref>, <ref target='Pg083'>83</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Credit by accounts, <ref target='Pg133'>133</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>by due bills, <ref target='Pg134'>134</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>currency, <ref target='Pg135'>135</ref>, <ref target='Pg117'>117</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>expanding, <ref target='Pg167'>167</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>expansion, <ref target='Pg158'>158</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Credits, taxation of, <ref target='Pg359'>359</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Crops in United States since 1850, <ref target='Pg010'>10</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>yield of, <ref target='Pg083'>83-86</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Crop-year, <ref target='Pg078'>78</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Currency, <ref target='Pg130'>130</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>advantages of national bank, <ref target='Pg146'>146</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>credit, <ref target='Pg135'>135</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Custom, or duty, <ref target='Pg357'>357</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Deferred settlement and credit expansion, <ref target='Pg158'>158</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>in exchange, <ref target='Pg138'>138</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Department stores, <ref target='Pg203'>203</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Destructive consumption, <ref target='Pg324'>324</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Developing civilization, <ref target='Pg053'>53</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Diminishing returns, law of, <ref target='Pg079'>79</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Discipline in production, <ref target='Pg047'>47</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Distribution of wealth, <ref target='Pg233'>233</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Division of labor, advantages, <ref target='Pg182'>182</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>disadvantages, <ref target='Pg188'>188</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>economy of, <ref target='Pg180'>180</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>limits, <ref target='Pg184'>184</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>on farms, <ref target='Pg186'>186</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Duty, or custom, <ref target='Pg357'>357</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Economic functions of government, <ref target='Pg337'>337</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Economic machinery of government, <ref target='Pg346'>346</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Economic science, <ref target='Pg002'>2</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Efficiency, requisites, <ref target='Pg053'>53</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Enlightened vs. savage, <ref target='Pg050'>50</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q>Equality of opportunity,</q> <ref target='Pg333'>333</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Equity in wages, <ref target='Pg277'>277</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Exchange, advantages, <ref target='Pg058'>58</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>in distribution, <ref target='Pg234'>234</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>in production, <ref target='Pg058'>58</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>limits of, <ref target='Pg060'>60</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>its machinery, <ref target='Pg109'>109</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Excise collections, <ref target='Pg357'>357</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Exemptions from taxes, <ref target='Pg354'>354</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Exertion as related to value, <ref target='Pg069'>69</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Expanding credit, <ref target='Pg167'>167</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Farm crops in United States since 1850, <ref target='Pg010'>10</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>interests, fluctuation of, <ref target='Pg009'>9</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>products, prices of, <ref target='Pg078'>78</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>stock in United States, <ref target='Pg009'>9</ref>, <ref target='Pg083'>83</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Farming combinations, <ref target='Pg204'>204</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Farms in the United States, <ref target='Pg009'>9</ref>, <ref target='Pg304'>304</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>small, for homes, <ref target='Pg202'>202</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Federations of labor, <ref target='Pg267'>267</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Final utility, <ref target='Pg067'>67</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Financial crisis, <ref target='Pg169'>169</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Floating capital, <ref target='Pg043'>43</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Fluctuation of prices, <ref target='Pg087'>87-108</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Forces in production, <ref target='Pg027'>27</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Franchises, <ref target='Pg211'>211</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Free communication, <ref target='Pg109'>109</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Freedom in markets, <ref target='Pg075'>75</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>General welfare, <ref target='Pg001'>1</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Gold, ratio to silver, <ref target='Pg124'>124</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>standard, <ref target='Pg128'>128</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Government and universal needs, <ref target='Pg339'>339</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Government chief incentive to production, <ref target='Pg206'>206</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Government, ends of, <ref target='Pg338'>338</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>stable, <ref target='Pg018'>18</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Government banks, <ref target='Pg147'>147</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>churches, <ref target='Pg342'>342</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>debts, <ref target='Pg368'>368</ref>, <ref target='Pg370'>370</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Government lands, <ref target='Pg294'>294</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Government machinery, <ref target='Pg346'>346</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Government resources, <ref target='Pg346'>346</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Government wards, <ref target='Pg342'>342</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Governmental limits, <ref target='Pg337'>337</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Grains, consumption of, <ref target='Pg084'>84</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Gresham's law, <ref target='Pg125'>125</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Hard times, <ref target='Pg172'>172</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>causes of, <ref target='Pg173'>173</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>cure for, <ref target='Pg178'>178</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>remedies, <ref target='Pg176'>176</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Higgling of the market, <ref target='Pg073'>73</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Hogs, number in United States, <ref target='Pg009'>9</ref>, <ref target='Pg083'>83</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>prices of, <ref target='Pg095'>95-99</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Horses, number in U. S., <ref target='Pg009'>9</ref>, <ref target='Pg083'>83</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Human energy, <ref target='Pg027'>27</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Ideal manliness, <ref target='Pg049'>49</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Improved farming, effect of, <ref target='Pg081'>81</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Imprudent consumption, <ref target='Pg319'>319</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Incentive of good government, <ref target='Pg206'>206</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Income taxes, <ref target='Pg360'>360</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='379'/><anchor id='Pg379'/>

<lg>
<l>Indirect taxes, <ref target='Pg356'>356</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Individual Efficiency, <ref target='Pg049'>49</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Individual responsibility for use of wealth, <ref target='Pg310'>310</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Individualism, <ref target='Pg328'>328</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Inheritance taxes, <ref target='Pg363'>363</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Insurance, applications of, <ref target='Pg229'>229</ref>, <ref target='Pg239'>239</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>governmental control of, <ref target='Pg228'>228</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>methods of, <ref target='Pg226'>226</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>nature of, <ref target='Pg225'>225</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Interest and rent distinguished, <ref target='Pg279'>279</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>principles of, <ref target='Pg283'>283</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>reasons for, <ref target='Pg283'>283</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>uses of, <ref target='Pg291'>291</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>varying rates of, <ref target='Pg286'>286</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Invention in farming, <ref target='Pg036'>36</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Labor and savings, relative importance, chart, <ref target='Pg053'>53</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Labor conflicts, arbitration in, <ref target='Pg268'>268</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Labor defined and classified, <ref target='Pg032'>32</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>operative, executive, speculative, <ref target='Pg035'>35</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>physical, mental, moral, <ref target='Pg034'>34</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Labor restrictions, <ref target='Pg274'>274</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Land as a force, <ref target='Pg029'>29</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Land rent, <ref target='Pg293'>293</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Land values, decrease of, <ref target='Pg302'>302</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>sources of, <ref target='Pg297'>297</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>variation, <ref target='Pg300'>300</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Legal tender, <ref target='Pg166'>166</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>License, <ref target='Pg210'>210</ref>, <ref target='Pg347'>347</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Live stock in United States, <ref target='Pg009'>9</ref>, <ref target='Pg083'>83</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Loan associations, <ref target='Pg290'>290</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Lockout, the, <ref target='Pg263'>263</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Luxury, legal restrictions upon, <ref target='Pg321'>321</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>not easily defined, <ref target='Pg319'>319</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Luxurious consumption, <ref target='Pg319'>319</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Manliness, ideal, <ref target='Pg049'>49</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Market, the higgling of, <ref target='Pg073'>73</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Market price, <ref target='Pg077'>77</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Markets, <ref target='Pg072'>72</ref>; freedom in, <ref target='Pg075'>75</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Measures, weights and, <ref target='Pg114'>114</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Methods of association, <ref target='Pg055'>55</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Monometalism, <ref target='Pg126'>126</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Monopoly privileges, <ref target='Pg209'>209</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Mortgage note, <ref target='Pg159'>159</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Mules, number of in United States, <ref target='Pg009'>9</ref>, <ref target='Pg083'>83</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Multiple standard, the, <ref target='Pg129'>129</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>National bank currency, advantages of, <ref target='Pg146'>146</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>National banks, <ref target='Pg144'>144</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>National standards of value, <ref target='Pg128'>128</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q>Nationalism,</q> <ref target='Pg332'>332</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Nationalization of industry, <ref target='Pg275'>275</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Natural forces, <ref target='Pg028'>28</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q>Nihilism,</q> <ref target='Pg329'>329</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Normal value, <ref target='Pg070'>70</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Oats, acreage and yield, <ref target='Pg009'>9</ref>, <ref target='Pg084'>84</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>prices of New York, <ref target='Pg087'>87-91</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>consumption of, <ref target='Pg084'>84</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Obstacles to fair adjustment of wages, <ref target='Pg259'>259</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Over-production, <ref target='Pg172'>172</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Ownership, <ref target='Pg015'>15</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Panic, financial, <ref target='Pg179'>179</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Patents, <ref target='Pg210'>210</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Personal attainments, <ref target='Pg045'>45</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Population, drifting to cities, <ref target='Pg303'>303</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Population in United States, <ref target='Pg009'>9</ref>, <ref target='Pg083'>83</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Pork, prices of, <ref target='Pg095'>95-99</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Power not wealth, <ref target='Pg006'>6</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Preface, vii-ix.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Premiums, <ref target='Pg206'>206</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Price of products and rent, <ref target='Pg299'>299</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Price, the market, <ref target='Pg077'>77</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Prices of beef, <ref target='Pg100'>100-105</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>corn, oats, wheat, <ref target='Pg087'>87</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of farm products, annual fluctuations, <ref target='Pg093'>93</ref>, <ref target='Pg098'>98</ref>, <ref target='Pg100'>100</ref>, <ref target='Pg100'>100</ref>, <ref target='Pg104'>104</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of farm products, fluctuations, <ref target='Pg078'>78</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of hogs and pork, <ref target='Pg095'>95-101</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of iron, kerosene, silver, and farm wages, <ref target='Pg106'>106</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of wheat, England, <ref target='Pg093'>93</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of wheat, New York, <ref target='Pg087'>87-93</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Principles of taxation, <ref target='Pg348'>348</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Proceeds of capital, <ref target='Pg279'>279</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Production defined, <ref target='Pg021'>21</ref>; extended, <ref target='Pg025'>25</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>forces in, <ref target='Pg027'>27</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Productive industries, <ref target='Pg021'>21</ref>; labor, <ref target='Pg032'>32</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Promissory note, <ref target='Pg158'>158</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Profit sharing, <ref target='Pg269'>269</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Profits defined, <ref target='Pg236'>236</ref>, <ref target='Pg241'>241</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>fluctuation in, <ref target='Pg255'>255</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>in agriculture, <ref target='Pg254'>254</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>in competition, <ref target='Pg252'>252</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>offset by losses, <ref target='Pg256'>256</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>tendency of, <ref target='Pg253'>253</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>variation in, <ref target='Pg251'>251</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Progress in welfare, <ref target='Pg017'>17</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Provision for future wants, <ref target='Pg316'>316</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='380'/><anchor id='Pg380'/>

<lg>
<l>Property, public, <ref target='Pg016'>16</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Property rights, <ref target='Pg015'>15</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Protection of the weak, <ref target='Pg343'>343</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Protective tariff, reasons for, <ref target='Pg213'>213</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>reasons against, <ref target='Pg217'>217</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Prudent consumption, <ref target='Pg312'>312</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Prudent use of wealth, <ref target='Pg312'>312</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Public property, <ref target='Pg016'>16</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Public responsibility, <ref target='Pg344'>344</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Quality, standard of, <ref target='Pg116'>116</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Railroads in United States, miles of, <ref target='Pg083'>83</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Ready transportation, <ref target='Pg111'>111</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Rent, interest and, <ref target='Pg279'>279</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>propriety of, <ref target='Pg295'>295</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>in price of products, <ref target='Pg299'>299</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Rents, variation, <ref target='Pg300'>300</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Rent values of land, <ref target='Pg293'>293</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Repudiation of government debts, <ref target='Pg370'>370</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Restrictive legislation, wages, <ref target='Pg274'>274</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Restrictions on luxury, <ref target='Pg321'>321</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Rural wealth analyzed, <ref target='Pg012'>12</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Savage vs. enlightened, <ref target='Pg050'>50</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sheep, number in U. S., <ref target='Pg009'>9</ref>, <ref target='Pg083'>83</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Silver, ratio to gold, <ref target='Pg124'>124</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Single land tax, <ref target='Pg365'>365</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Skill, <ref target='Pg046'>46</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sliding scale of wages, <ref target='Pg271'>271</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Small farms for homes, <ref target='Pg202'>202</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Socialism, <ref target='Pg330'>330</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Socialistic tendencies, <ref target='Pg333'>333</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Social organization for consumption, <ref target='Pg328'>328</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sources of land values, <ref target='Pg297'>297</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Special incentives to production, <ref target='Pg206'>206</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Special taxes, <ref target='Pg364'>364</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Standard, the multiple, <ref target='Pg129'>129</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Standards of value, <ref target='Pg117'>117</ref>; in United</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>States, <ref target='Pg120'>120</ref>; fluctuation of, <ref target='Pg121'>121</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Standing account, <ref target='Pg158'>158</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>State banks, <ref target='Pg136'>136</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Statistics, use of, <ref target='Pg160'>160</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Stock of farms since 1850, in U. S., <ref target='Pg009'>9</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Stock company, <ref target='Pg161'>161</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Stock exchange, <ref target='Pg162'>162</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Strikes, <ref target='Pg259'>259</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Supply and demand, <ref target='Pg072'>72</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Tariffs, <ref target='Pg213'>213</ref>, <ref target='Pg357'>357</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Tariff, incidental tendencies, <ref target='Pg220'>220</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>reasons against, <ref target='Pg217'>217</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>reasons for, <ref target='Pg215'>215</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Tax, a single land, <ref target='Pg365'>365</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Taxation, direct and indirect, <ref target='Pg351'>351</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>exemption of bonds, <ref target='Pg369'>369</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of credits, <ref target='Pg359'>359</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>principles of, <ref target='Pg348'>348</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Taxes, assessment of, <ref target='Pg353'>353</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>on incomes, <ref target='Pg360'>360</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>on inheritance, <ref target='Pg363'>363</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>on liquors, etc., <ref target='Pg359'>359</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>peculiar forms of, <ref target='Pg358'>358</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>special, <ref target='Pg364'>364</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Trades unions, <ref target='Pg264'>264</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Transformation in production, <ref target='Pg024'>24</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Transmutation in production, <ref target='Pg024'>24</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Transportation, cost of, <ref target='Pg113'>113</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>in production, <ref target='Pg022'>22</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>ready means of, <ref target='Pg111'>111</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Trusts, <ref target='Pg204'>204</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>may cheapen products, <ref target='Pg194'>194</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Universal education, <ref target='Pg341'>341</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Universal needs met by government, <ref target='Pg339'>339</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Usury laws, <ref target='Pg288'>288</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Utility as related to value, <ref target='Pg066'>66</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Value and cost, <ref target='Pg069'>69</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Value, essentials of, <ref target='Pg065'>65</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>from utility, <ref target='Pg066'>66</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>in services, <ref target='Pg065'>65</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>nature of, <ref target='Pg063'>63</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>normal, <ref target='Pg070'>70</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of gold and silver, fluctuations of, <ref target='Pg122'>122</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>standards of, <ref target='Pg117'>117</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>the basis of exchange, <ref target='Pg063'>63</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Vicious consumption, <ref target='Pg323'>323</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Wage-earners in conflict with profit-makers, <ref target='Pg257'>257</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Wages and profits, <ref target='Pg239'>239</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Wages, defined, <ref target='Pg241'>241</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>fluctuation of, <ref target='Pg248'>248</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>obstacles to fair, <ref target='Pg259'>259</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of women, <ref target='Pg247'>247</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>real and nominal, <ref target='Pg236'>236</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>relation to wheat price, <ref target='Pg093'>93</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>sliding scale, <ref target='Pg271'>271</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>tend upward, <ref target='Pg248'>248</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>under stimulated competition, <ref target='Pg245'>245</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>under supply and demand, <ref target='Pg244'>244</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>variation of, <ref target='Pg243'>243</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>with cheap transportation, <ref target='Pg250'>250</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Wants basis of wealth, <ref target='Pg014'>14</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>certain, <ref target='Pg014'>14</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>individual, <ref target='Pg016'>16</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Waste, false notions of, <ref target='Pg325'>325</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='381'/><anchor id='Pg381'/>

<lg>
<l>Waste in rivalry, <ref target='Pg326'>326</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Wasteful consumption, <ref target='Pg323'>323</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Watering stock, <ref target='Pg162'>162</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Wealth, consumption of, <ref target='Pg307'>307</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>defined, <ref target='Pg005'>5</ref>, <ref target='Pg051'>51</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>distinguished from power, <ref target='Pg006'>6</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>distribution, <ref target='Pg255'>255</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>individual use of, <ref target='Pg309'>309</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>in farming, <ref target='Pg003'>3</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>in welfare, <ref target='Pg001'>1</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>for welfare, <ref target='Pg307'>307</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>material, <ref target='Pg012'>12</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>(rural) analyzed, <ref target='Pg012'>12</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>used by individuals, <ref target='Pg307'>307</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Weights and measures, <ref target='Pg114'>114</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>system of, decimal, <ref target='Pg115'>115</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Welfare, elements of, <ref target='Pg001'>1</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>mutual, <ref target='Pg002'>2</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>progress in, <ref target='Pg017'>17</ref>, <ref target='Pg373'>373</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Wheat, acreage and yield, <ref target='Pg084'>84</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>crop in United States, <ref target='Pg084'>84</ref>, <ref target='Pg087'>87</ref>, <ref target='Pg091'>91</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>world's crop, <ref target='Pg087'>87</ref>, <ref target='Pg091'>91</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Wheat prices, annual New York, <ref target='Pg091'>91</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>in England, <ref target='Pg093'>93</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>in New York, <ref target='Pg087'>87-93</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Women's wages, <ref target='Pg247'>247</ref>.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='383'/><anchor id='Pg383'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<head>Advertisements.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Best and Newest
Rural Books</hi>
</p>

<p>
Books On Leading Topics
Connected With Agricultural
And Rural
Life Are Here Mentioned.
Each Book Is The Work
Of A Specialist, Under The
Editorial Supervision Of
Professor L. H. Bailey, Of
The Cornell University,
Or By Professor Bailey
Himself, And Is Readable,
Clear-Cut And Practical.
</p>

<pb n='384'/><anchor id='Pg384'/>

<p>
THE RURAL SCIENCE SERIES
</p>

<p>
Includes books which state the underlying principles
of agriculture in plain language. They are suitable
for consultation alike by the amateur or professional
tiller of the soil, the scientist or the student, and are
freely illustrated and finely made.
</p>

<p>
The following volumes are now ready:
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>THE SOIL.</hi> By <hi rend='smallcaps'>F. H. King</hi>, of the University of Wisconsin. 303 pp. 45
illustrations. 75 cents.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>THE FERTILITY OF THE LAND.</hi> By <hi rend='smallcaps'>I. P. Roberts</hi>, of Cornell University.
Second edition. 421 pp. 45 illustrations. $1.25.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>THE SPRAYING OF PLANTS.</hi> By <hi rend='smallcaps'>E. G. Lodeman</hi>, late of Cornell University.
399 pp. 92 illustrations. $1.00.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS.</hi> By <hi rend='smallcaps'>H. H. Wing</hi>, of Cornell University.
280 pp. 33 illustrations. $1.00.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>THE PRINCIPLES OF FRUIT-GROWING.</hi> By <hi rend='smallcaps'>L. H. Bailey</hi>. Second
edition. 514 pp. 120 illustrations. $1.25.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>BUSH-FRUITS.</hi> By <hi rend='smallcaps'>F. W. Card</hi>, of Rhode Island College of Agriculture
and Mechanic Arts. 537 pp. 113 illustrations. $1.50.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>FERTILIZERS.</hi> By <hi rend='smallcaps'>E. B. Voorhees</hi>, of New Jersey Experiment Station.
Second edition. 335 pp. $1.00.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>THE PRINCIPLES OF AGRICULTURE.</hi> By <hi rend='smallcaps'>L. H. Bailey</hi>. Second edition.
300 pp. 92 illustrations. $1.25.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE.</hi> By <hi rend='smallcaps'>F. H. King</hi>, University of Wisconsin.
502 pp. 163 illustrations. $1.50.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>THE FARMSTEAD.</hi> By <hi rend='smallcaps'>I. P. Roberts</hi>. 350 pp. 138 illustrations. $1.25.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>RURAL WEALTH AND WELFARE.</hi> By <hi rend='smallcaps'>George T. Fairchild</hi>, Ex-President
of the Agricultural College of Kansas. 381 pp. 14 charts. $1.25.
</p>

<p>
New volumes will be added from time to time to
the <hi rend='smallcaps'>Rural Science Series</hi>. The following are in
preparation:
</p>

<p>
PRINCIPLES OF VEGETABLE GARDENING. By <hi rend='smallcaps'>L. H. Bailey</hi>. <hi rend='italic'>In press.</hi>
</p>

<p>
PHYSIOLOGY OF PLANTS. By <hi rend='smallcaps'>J. C. Arthur</hi>, Purdue University.
</p>

<p>
PRINCIPLES OF BREEDING OF ANIMALS. By <hi rend='smallcaps'>W. H. Brewer</hi>, of
Yale University.
</p>

<p>
PLANT PATHOLOGY. By <hi rend='smallcaps'>B. T. Galloway</hi> and associates of U. S. Department
of Agriculture.
</p>

<p>
FEEDING OF ANIMALS. By <hi rend='smallcaps'>W. H. Jordan</hi>, of New York State Experiment
Station.
</p>

<p>
FARM POULTRY. By <hi rend='smallcaps'>George C. Watson</hi>, of Pennsylvania State College.
</p>

<pb n='385'/><anchor id='Pg385'/>

<p>
THE GARDEN-CRAFT SERIES
</p>

<p>
Comprises practical hand-books for the horticulturist,
explaining and illustrating in detail the various
important methods which experience has demonstrated
to be the most satisfactory. They may be
called manuals of practice, and though all are prepared
by Professor <hi rend='smallcaps'>Bailey</hi>, of Cornell University,
they include the opinions and methods of successful
specialists in many lines, thus combining the
results of the observations and experiences of numerous
students in this and other lands. They are
written in the clear, strong, concise English and in
the entertaining style which characterize the author.
The volumes are compact, uniform in style, clearly
printed, and illustrated as the subject demands.
They are of convenient shape for the pocket, and
are substantially bound in flexible green cloth.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>THE HORTICULTURIST'S RULE-BOOK.</hi> By <hi rend='smallcaps'>L. H. Bailey</hi>. Fourth
edition. 312 pp. 75 cts.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>THE NURSERY-BOOK.</hi> By <hi rend='smallcaps'>L. H. Bailey</hi>. Third edition. 365 pp. 152
illustrations. $1.00.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>PLANT-BREEDING.</hi> By <hi rend='smallcaps'>L. H. Bailey</hi>. 293 pp. 20 illustrations. $1.00.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>THE FORCING-BOOK.</hi> By <hi rend='smallcaps'>L. H. Bailey</hi>. 266 pp. 88 illustrations. $1.00.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>GARDEN-MAKING.</hi> By <hi rend='smallcaps'>L. H. Bailey</hi>. Third edition. 417 pp. 256 illustrations.
$1.00.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>THE PRUNING-BOOK.</hi> By <hi rend='smallcaps'>L. H. Bailey</hi>. Second edition. 545 pp. 331
illustrations. $1.50.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>AMATEUR'S PRACTICAL GARDEN-BOOK.</hi> By <hi rend='smallcaps'>C. E. Hunn</hi> and <hi rend='smallcaps'>L. H.
Bailey</hi>. 250 pp. Many marginal cuts. $1.00.
</p>

<pb n='386'/><anchor id='Pg386'/>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>WORKS BY PROFESSOR BAILEY</hi>
</p>

<p>
THE EVOLUTION OF OUR NATIVE
FRUITS. By L. H. BAILEY, Professor
of Horticulture in the Cornell University.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>472 PAGES&mdash;125 ILLUSTRATIONS&mdash;$2.00</hi>
</p>

<p>
In this entertaining volume, the origin and development
of the fruits peculiar to North America
are inquired into, and the personality of those horticultural
pioneers whose almost forgotten labors
have given us our most valuable fruits is touched
upon. There has been careful research into the
history of the various fruits, including inspection
of the records of the great European botanists who
have given attention to American economic botany.
The conclusions reached, the information presented,
and the suggestions as to future developments, cannot
but be valuable to any thoughtful fruit-grower,
while the terse style of the author is at its best in
his treatment of the subject.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>The Evolution of our Native Fruits</hi> discusses The Rise of
the American Grape (North America a Natural Vineland, Attempts
to Cultivate the European Grape, The Experiments of the Dufours,
The Branch of Promise, John Adlum and the Catawba, Rise of
Commercial Viticulture, Why Did the Early Vine Experiments Fail?
Synopsis of the American Grapes); The Strange History of the Mulberries
(The Early Silk Industry, The "Multicaulis Craze,"); Evolution
of American Plums and Cherries (Native Plums in General,
The Chickasaw, Hortulana, Marianna and Beach Plum Groups,
Pacific Coast Plum, Various Other Types of Plums, Native Cherries,
Dwarf Cherry Group); Native Apples (Indigenous Species, Amelioration
has begun); Origin of American Raspberry-growing (Early
American History, Present Types, Outlying Types); Evolution of
Blackberry and Dewberry Culture (The High-bush Blackberry and
Its Kin, The Dewberries, Botanical Names); Various Types of
Berry-like Fruits (The Gooseberry, Native Currants, Juneberry,
Buffalo Berry, Elderberry, High-bush Cranberry, Cranberry, Strawberry);
Various Types of Tree Fruits (Persimmon, Custard-Apple
Tribe, Thorn-Apples, Nut-Fruits); General Remarks on the Improvement
of our Native Fruits (What Has Been Done, What Probably
Should Be Done).
</p>

<pb n='387'/><anchor id='Pg387'/>

<p>
THE SURVIVAL OF THE UNLIKE:
</p>

<p>
A Collection of Evolution Essays Suggested
by the Study of Domestic Plants. By L. H.
BAILEY, Professor of Horticulture in the Cornell
University.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>THIRD EDITION&mdash;515 PAGES&mdash;22 ILLUSTRATIONS&mdash;$2.00</hi>
</p>

<p>
To those interested in the underlying philosophy
of plant life, this volume, written in a most entertaining
style, and fully illustrated, will prove welcome.
It treats of the modification of plants under
cultivation upon the evolution theory, and its attitude
on this interesting subject is characterized
by the author's well-known originality and independence
of thought. Incidentally, there is stated
much that will be valuable and suggestive to the
working horticulturist, as well as to the man or
woman impelled by a love of nature to horticultural
pursuits. It may well be called, indeed, a
philosophy of horticulture, in which all interested
may find inspiration and instruction.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>The Survival of the Unlike</hi> comprises thirty essays touching
upon The General Fact and Philosophy of Evolution (The Plant
Individual, Experimental Evolution, Coxey's Army and the Russian
Thistle, Recent Progress, etc.); Expounding the Fact and Causes of
Variation (The Supposed Correlations of Quality in Fruits, Natural
History of Synonyms, Reflective Impressions, Relation of Seed-bearing
to Cultivation, Variation after Birth, Relation between
American and Eastern Asian Fruits, Horticultural Geography, Problems
of Climate and Plants, American Fruits, Acclimatization, Sex
in Fruits, Novelties, Promising Varieties, etc.); and Tracing the
Evolution of Particular Types of Plants (the Cultivated Strawberry,
Battle of the Plums, Grapes, Progress of the Carnation, Petunia,
The Garden Tomato, etc.).
</p>

<pb n='388'/><anchor id='Pg388'/>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>CYCLOPEDIA OF
AMERICAN HORTICULTURE</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>COMPRISING DIRECTIONS FOR THE CULTIVATION OF HORTICULTURAL
CROPS, AND ORIGINAL DESCRIPTIONS OF ALL THE SPECIES OF
FRUITS, VEGETABLES, FLOWERS AND ORNAMENTAL PLANTS KNOWN
TO BE IN THE MARKET IN THE UNITED STATES AND CANADA</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>By L. H. BAILEY</hi>
</p>

<p>
ASSISTED BY MANY EXPERT CULTIVATORS AND BOTANISTS
</p>

<lg>
<l>In Four Quarto Volumes,</l>
<l>Illustrated with over Two Thousand Original Engravings</l>
</lg>

<p>
This monumental work, the most comprehensive
review of the vegetable world yet made by an
American, is now in the press. Though distinctly
an American work, not only plants indigenous to
the North American continent are mentioned, but
also all the species known to be in the horticultural
trade in North America, of whatever origin.
It is really a survey of the cultivated plants of the
world.
</p>

<p>
The Editor, Professor L. H. Bailey, has been
gathering material for this Cyclopedia for many
years. He has enlisted the coperation of men of
attainments, either in science or practice everywhere,
and the Cyclopedia has the unique distinction of
presenting for the first time, in a carefully arranged
and perfectly accessible form, the best knowledge of
the best specialists in America upon gardening,
fruit-growing, vegetable culture, forestry, and the
<pb n='389'/><anchor id='Pg389'/>
like, as well as exact botanical information. It is
all fresh, and not a rehash of old material. No
precedent has been followed; the work is upon its
own original plan.
</p>

<p>
Many scientific botanical authors of justly high
repute decline to give attention to the important
characters of <hi rend='italic'>cultivated</hi> plants, confining their work
to the species in the original forms only. Professor
Bailey takes the view that a subject of commercial
importance, one which engages the attention
and affects the livelihood of thousands of bright
people, is decidedly worthy the investigation of the
trained botanist. In the Cyclopedia of American
Horticulture, therefore, very full accounts are given
of the botanical features of all important commercial
plants, as the apple, cabbage, rose, etc. At the same
time, practical cultivators submit observations upon
culture, marketing, and the like, and frequently two
opinions are presented upon the same subject from
different localities, so that the reader may have
before him not only complete botanical information,
but very fully the best practice in the most favorable
localities for the perfection of any fruit or
vegetable or economic plant.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>ILLUSTRATIONS</hi>
</p>

<p>
The pictorial character of the work is likewise
notable. There are over two thousand illustrations,
and they are all made expressly for this work, either
from accurate photographs or from the specimens.
These illustrations have been drawn by competent
<pb n='390'/><anchor id='Pg390'/>
horticultural artists, in nearly every case under the
eye of the Editor, or with the supervision of some
one of the sub-editors. No <q>trade</q> cuts are used.
</p>

<p>
In planning the illustrations, artistic effect has
been kept in view, and while no drawing is used
which does not show its subject with perfect scientific
accuracy, the monotonous so-called <q>botanical</q>
outlines, often made from lifeless herbarium specimens,
are notably absent. The intention is to show
the life of the plant, not merely its skeleton.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>CONTRIBUTORS, SYSTEM, ETC.</hi>
</p>

<p>
As above mentioned, the contributors are men
eminent as cultivators or as specialists on the various
subjects. The important articles are signed, and it
is expected that the complete work will include fully
5,000 signed contributions by horticulturists, cultivators
and botanists.
</p>

<p>
The arrangement is alphabetical as to the genera,
but systematic in the species. A very simple but
complete plan of key-letters is used, and the whole
arrangement is toward ease of reference as well as
completeness of information. To each large genus
there is a separate alphabetic index.
</p>

<p>
Important commercial subjects are treated usually
under the best known name, whether it be the
scientific or "common" designation. Thus, the apple
is fully discussed as apple, rather than as <hi rend='italic'>Pyrus
Malus</hi>, and the carnation comes into view in the
third letter of the alphabet, not as <hi rend='italic'>Dianthus Caryophyllus</hi>.
Carefully edited cross-references make it
<pb n='391'/><anchor id='Pg391'/>
easy to find any desired subject, however, in the
shortest time.
</p>

<p>
The plan of presenting the full details of culture
of important plants, through the views of
acknowledged practical experts upon the various
subjects, assures the great value of the book to the
man or woman who is obtaining a living from
horticultural pursuits.
</p>

<p>
A special feature of the Cyclopedia of American
Horticulture is its wealth of bibliographic reference.
The world's horticultural literature has been thoroughly
searched, and most carefully indexed, so that
the student will find citations to every available
article or illustration upon any subject consulted.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>DETAILS OF PUBLICATION</hi>
</p>

<p>
The Cyclopedia of American Horticulture is to
be completed in four handsome quarto volumes,
embracing about two thousand pages, with more
than that number of original illustrations. It is
carefully printed upon specially made paper of a
permanent character. The first volume (A to D,
509 pages, 743 illustrations, 9 plates) is now ready,
and the work is expected to be completed during the
year 1900.
</p>

<p>
The work is sold only by subscription, and
orders will be accepted for the full set only.
Terms and further information may be had of
the Publishers,
</p>

<p>
THE MACMILLAN COMPANY
</p>

<p>
No. 66 Fifth Avenue, <hi rend='smallcaps'>New York</hi>
</p>

<pb n='392'/><anchor id='Pg392'/>

<p>
LESSONS WITH PLANTS: Suggestions
for Seeing and Interpreting Some of
the Common Forms of Vegetation. By L.
H. BAILEY, Professor of Horticulture in the Cornell
University, with delineations from nature by W. S.
HOLDSWORTH, of the Agricultural College of
Michigan.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>SECOND EDITION&mdash;491 PAGES&mdash;446 ILLUSTRATIONS&mdash;12 MO&mdash;CLOTH&mdash;$1.10
NET</hi>
</p>

<p>
There are two ways of looking at nature. The
<hi rend='italic'>old way</hi>, which you have found so unsatisfactory,
was to classify everything&mdash;to consider leaves, roots,
and whole plants as formal herbarium specimens,
forgetting that each had its own story of growth
and development, struggle and success, to tell.
Nothing stifles a natural love for plants more effectually
than the old way.
</p>

<p>
The new way is to watch the life of every growing
thing, to look upon each plant as a living
creature, whose life is a story as fascinating as the
story of any favorite hero. "Lessons with Plants"
is a book of stories, or rather, a book of plays, for
we can see each chapter acted out if we take the
trouble to <hi rend='italic'>look</hi> at the actors.
</p>

<p>
<q>I have spent some time in most delightful examination of it, and the
longer I look, the better I like it. I find it not only full of interest, but
eminently suggestive. I know of no book which begins to do so much to
open the eyes of the student&mdash;whether pupil or teacher&mdash;to the wealth of
meaning contained in simple plant forms. Above all else, it seems to be
full of suggestions that help one to learn the language of plants, so they
may talk to him.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='smallcaps'>Darwin L.
Bardwell</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>Superintendent of Schools, Binghamton</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<q>It is an admirable book, and cannot fail both to awaken interest in
the subject, and to serve as a helpful and reliable guide to young students
of plant life. It will, I think, fill an important place in secondary schools,
and comes at an opportune time, when helps of this kind are needed and
eagerly sought.</q>&mdash;Professor
<hi rend='smallcaps'>V. M. Spalding</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>University of Michigan</hi>.
</p>

<p>
FIRST LESSONS WITH PLANTS
</p>

<p>
An Abridgement of the above. 117 pages&mdash;116 illustrations&mdash;40
cents net.
</p>

</div>

</body>
<back rend="page-break-before: right">
  <div rend="page-break-before: right">
    <divGen type="pgfooter" />
  </div>
</back>
</text>
</TEI.2>
